Page: https://www.oracle.com/database/vector-database/
Content:
Database
What Is a Vector Database?
Jeffrey Erickson | Content Strategist | October 29, 2024
A lesser-known data type, vectors, has seized the spotlight recently as an enabler of generative AI. But vectors—and databases capable of storing and analyzing them—have been toiling backstage for many years. They’re used in geospatial mapping and analysis for city planning, transportation logistics, and environmental analysis. More recently, vectors have been used in recommendation engines for retail products as well as music and video streaming sites.
Generative AI builds on these use cases and opens the door to new innovations using vectors and vector databases along with companion technologies, including retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).
What Is a Vector?
A vector is simply a set of numbers that represents the features of an object—whether that object is a word, a sentence, a document, an image, or a video or audio file. Vectors are needed because comparing or searching this type of unstructured content is difficult for computers. Comparing or searching vectors, on the other hand, is much easier and is based on well-understood math.
Vectors are stored in a database with, or with a link to, the data objects on which they are based. Vectors that are mathematically close to one another tend to describe objects with similar features, so you can quickly compare or search them and return objects that are alike. You might also form a query vector with only certain features identified. A search will return objects with features similar to those specified in the query vector.
What Is a Vector Database?
A vector database is any database that can natively store and manage vector embeddings and handle the unstructured data they describe, such as documents, images, video, or audio.
With the importance of vector search for generative AI, the tech industry has spawned many specialized, standalone vector databases, which companies can add to their data infrastructures. Meanwhile, versions of established favorites, such as Oracle Database and the open source MySQL database, have incorporated vectors as a native data type alongside many other data types. This allows searches on a combination of business and semantic data to be faster and more precise, as both data types are available in a single database. This approach also avoids the data consistency problems introduced when using a separate, specialized vector database in addition to the business’s primary database.

VIDEO: What Is a Vector Database? How Can It Help Meet Business Needs?


Vector Index vs. Vector Database
Vector indexes and vector databases are both designed to efficiently store and retrieve vectors, that is, sets of numbers that represent the features of an object, like a document, image, or video or audio file. However, they have different characteristics and use cases. Vector indexes are primarily used for “nearest neighbor” search, which involves finding the closest vector to a given query vector. Indexes are great for applications that require fast and accurate similarity searches, such as a recommendation engine. In contrast, vector databases are where organizations store vectors for retrieval and analysis. An enterprise-class vector database delivers useful features beyond nearest neighbor search, such as metadata storage, data versioning, and integration with other systems.
Key Differences
The key difference between a vector index and a vector database is that vector indexes store information about the attributes of unstructured data, such as text, images, or audio files. This information is represented by a set of numbers called a vector. The vector index holds this data and “indexes” it in a way that helps a database quickly identify and match objects.
A vector database houses these indexes and the objects they describe. However, how a database arranges the vector indexes and data objects varies. Vector-enabled databases, such as Oracle Database, separate the storage of data objects from how the data and vectors are searched. This allows them to combine the mature querying power of SQL for metadata and up-to-date business data with the speed and contextual relevancy of vector search. This approach means, for example, that a vector search for relevant retail products can also deliver up-to-date pricing and availability.
Key Takeaways
Vector databases efficiently store and manipulate objects using a type of data called a vector embedding.
Vector embeddings describe the features of an object, and a vector-enabled database stores those vectors and creates indexes that facilitate fast searches.
Vectors and vector-enabled databases are not new; they have long been employed for specialized use cases, such as mapping and data analytics.
More recently, vector embeddings and vector databases have been used to find similar products, do biometric pattern recognition, detect anomalies, and in recommendation engines.
Enterprises are now combining vector search and generative AI with retrieval-augmented generation technology to get more relevant results from generative AI by sharing select items from their storehouses of documents and communications. The result is prompt responses that are more accurate and contextually relevant as they are based on the additional data supplied by RAG.
Vector Databases Explained
Instead of taking on the cost and effort to fine-tune generative AI models, companies are curating the data that LLMs use to generate their outputs. They’re using vector databases that contain up-to-date enterprise information. This architectural approach, called retrieval-augmented generation, lets an LLM that was trained on vast amounts of generalized data enhance its response by using private data found in a vector database.
For example, if an LLM-powered chatbot could access a retailer’s customer records and email communications instead of generic messages, it could provide more useful and personalized responses to queries such as, “Has my order shipped?”
RAG can also boost the reliability and trustworthiness of generative AI models by citing which documents in the vector database informed its output.
Why Are Vector Databases Important?
Unsurprisingly, the use of databases optimized for storing and analyzing vectors is rising. Once used primarily for mapping and data analysis, vector databases have become a critical cornerstone technology for the recommendation engines commonly used by the most popular retailers and music and video streaming providers as well as virtual assistants, biometric pattern recognition, anomaly detection, and more. And now, vector databases have found a new and spectacular use: Storing large volumes of unstructured data that can be accessed to inform the outputs of generative AI models.
A growing trend is for established databases, such as MySQL and Oracle Database, to incorporate vector data as a native data type alongside the rest of an organization’s data, such as JSON, graph, spatial, and relational. This convergence negates the need to move data to a separate database for generative AI operations, which both simplifies the process and leaves valuable data in trusted repositories.
The growth of generative AI use cases means there are many new vector databases on the market, in addition to the established NoSQL and relational databases that have added vector data type management.
How Do Vector Databases Work?
Vector databases work by storing and processing data as vectors, which are mathematical representations of features of objects in multidimensional space. This allows complex data types, such as images, audio, video, and sensor data, to be stored and queried efficiently, making vectors ideal for use cases like recommendation systems, natural language processing, and image recognition.
Operations happen in several steps:
Vectorization. Vectors can be created to describe the contents or features of unstructured data. This unstructured database could be in the form of text stored in database tables or documents stored on a file system.
Indexing. Vector databases use vector indexes to organize vectors in a hierarchical manner, allowing for their efficient search and retrieval.
Querying. To query vector data, vector databases perform vector distance operations using a query vector. The closer vectors are mathematically, the more similar are the objects that the vectors represent. Normally this process will return a small result set, such as the five most similar items.
Post processing. After a vector database retrieves a query vector’s nearest neighbors, it may optionally re-rank the rows of the result set. Re-ranking is an expensive operation compared with the vector query, but it can give a better order for the existing vector query results.
The diagram illustrates how a vector database can help a streaming service recommend just the right movie for a sci-fi buff.
Types of Vector Databases
Vector databases can be categorized into various types, either by storage structure, such as columnar, or classified based on their implementation, such as in-memory databases. Each type has advantages; which type you select should be based on your specific requirements and use cases.
Columnar databases
A columnar database stores data in columns and groups them on a disk. This arrangement speeds up data analytics because the analysis usually involves filtering and combining data from table columns. Databases can also store records in row format, which is helpful for transactions where you’re updating a single item in the record. For data analysis, however, a columnar database lets analysts scan any column of thousands or millions of records very quickly.
Document stores
A document store database, or document-oriented database, is a program and data storage system that manages, retrieves, and stores document-oriented information. Document databases store data in flexible, JSON-like documents, which are suitable for varied and dynamic data structures. They differ from relational databases, which use tables to organize data with a fixed schema.
Graph databases
Graph analytics is the process of analyzing data in a graph format, using data points as nodes and relationships as edges. Looking at data this way can help you discover connections and relationships that weren’t obvious before. Graph analytics requires a database that can support graph formats. This could be a dedicated graph database or a converged database that supports multiple data models, including graph.
In-memory databases
In-memory databases store and manipulate data in the memory tier of an application rather than on a storage disk. This type of structure is often matched with columnar store functionality and vectorized query plans to accelerate analytic queries. This type of data store is good at supporting lightning-fast operations in global telecommunications and businesses that need to make decisions based on real-time data.
Key-value stores
Key-value stores, sometimes also called key-value databases, are a quick way to store and query data that is often changing, such as items in an online store. The key-value store is a NoSQL-type database that uses a key value to pinpoint a specific record for querying or updating.
Spatial databases
A spatial database stores and manages spatial data, which represents information about the physical location and geometric properties of objects in space. They do this with indexing techniques and query operations. Spatial databases are used for online mapping and analytics as well as in shipping logistics operations.
Time series databases
A time series database is used to efficiently store and analyze time-stamped data, where each data point is associated with a specific time stamp or time interval. These databases are commonly used in IT monitoring systems that depend on log analysis and in finance.
Vector databases for large language models
Vector databases enhance commercial or open source large language models by giving them access to up-to-date information supplied by a local organization or business. This helps make the LLM’s output more relevant and personalized for people associated with that organization.
Who Uses Vector Databases?
Vector databases are used by various applications and organizations that deal with large amounts of spatial and geometric data, such as in the retail and logistics industries and for systems that pilot autonomous vehicles. And now, companies exploring advanced AI and machine learning are adopting vector databases, too. Generative AI models, for example, depend on vector databases to improve their outputs by using local, up-to-date data.
Other specific use cases include the following:
Finance firms use vectors in several ways. For example, in portfolio analysis, vectors can represent aspects of a client’s portfolios. They can also be used to track account performance over time.
Healthcare researchers use vector databases to support their research and clinical trials. They store and analyze data related to patient demographics, locations, and treatment outcomes, allowing researchers to assess the impact of many different factors on treatment efficacy.
Online retailers use vector databases to reference past purchases and browsing habits and recommend products that customers are likely to find desirable.
Shipping logistics companies use vector databases to store information about locations and distances, allowing them to accurately map and track objects in motion.
Streaming services use vectors to run recommendation engines, allowing them to present recommendations based on many factors, including genre, lead actors, release date, and reviews.
How Are Vector Databases Used?
The use cases for vector databases are as varied as the organizations and applications that depend on them. In addition to real-time data analytics, financial systems, and recommendation engines, vector databases are optimized to handle the complex data structures commonly required for tasks such as image recognition and natural language processing.
By storing and processing data efficiently, vector databases enable companies to leverage complex data structures for a wide range of applications, including the following:
Recommendation systems. Vector embeddings are used to quickly find similar product or entertainment options that are likely to interest a shopper or browser.
Search engines. Search engines use vector databases to index queries and documents with their vector embeddings, allowing them to locate similar search results or similar documents quickly.
Personalization. These systems use demographic information and past choices as guides for vector searches that pinpoint products or services that are likely matches for a particular user.
Anomaly detection. Vector databases allow the efficient search for anomalous vectors, even in very large data sets. This can help security teams spot attempted breaches and credit card companies stop fraudulent transactions.
Genomics and bioinformatics. Because vectors and vector databases are good at pattern matching and anomaly detection, they can help researchers match genetic sequences for comparison of large volumes of genetic data. This can aid in areas such as disease prediction and drug discovery.
Healthcare and medical research. Healthcare providers are using vector databases to store and manage information relevant to patient care, such as medical records, demographic data, lab results, and even genetic information. In clinical trials, geospatial data related to trial sites, patient demographics, treatment outcomes, and adverse events can be analyzed to determine the efficacy of a treatment.
Image and video retrieval. Image and video retrieval operations employ vector databases for similarity and semantic searches that quickly pinpoint images or videos amid deep catalogs of options.
Advantages of Vector Databases
Vector databases offer many advantages, including fast similarity search. They are optimized for efficient nearest-neighbor searches, allowing quick retrieval of similar items even in large datasets. This makes them ideal for applications and industries that require real-time processing and analysis of unstructured data and for emerging generative AI use cases.
Other advantages include the following:
Cost-effectiveness. Vector databases, particularly open source options such as PostGIS, MySQL with vector extensions, or multimodel databases with native vector stores, offer cost-effective solutions for geospatial analysis and generative AI models.
Efficient storage. Spatial indexing techniques in vector databases allow for efficient storage and organizing of vectorized data.
Fast retrieval. Vector databases are indexed for fast retrieval of data based on an object's many attributes. They do this by noting relationships and proximity and using those to execute searches quickly.
Integration with machine learning. Vector databases are designed to integrate with machine learning frameworks and algorithms, which drives the development of predictive models, anomaly detection, clustering, and other machine learning-based analyses.
Personalization. Vector databases allow retailers, music streaming services, and even healthcare businesses to tailor their services to quickly find matches for an individual’s preferences and needs.
Real-time analysis. Vector databases can support in-memory operations for fast query response times and efficient data processing. This enables them to perform real-time analysis for day-to-day decision-making.
Reduced development complexity. Vector databases can provide APIs, libraries, and query languages that abstract away the complexities of data management and application development. This can vastly reduce the time involved in the application development process and, thus the cost.
Scalability. Vector databases can efficiently manage and process millions or even billions of vector objects and, with the right infrastructure, grow quickly to keep up with demand.
Versatility. Vector databases support a wide range of unstructured data, such as audio recordings, text documents, and images. This versatility allows them to accommodate many use cases and applications.
How Can Oracle Support Your Vector Needs?
Whether you’re using generative AI or nearly any other operation using vectors, Oracle can help.
Oracle Database, the world’s most popular enterprise database, provides a single data platform for vectors and all your business data. Effortlessly harness the capability of similarity search for your company's data without the need to oversee and synchronize various databases. AI Vector Search allows you to conduct searches on both structured and unstructured data by understanding its semantics or meaning, as well as its values.
Combining relational data, JSON documents, graphs, geospatial data, text, and vectors in a single database enables you to rapidly build new features in your applications. AI Vector Search in the Oracle Database can also be used in a RAG pipeline together with any GenAI service. In addition, Oracle’s HeatWave MySQL database service handles vectors natively to support vector search and other use cases. For example, you can use it together with the RAG service in Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) to bring a generative AI interface to your proprietary documents, giving you an AI that’s an expert in your organization’s operational data.
Embrace the Power of Oracle AI Vector Search
Whether you’re using vectors for data analysis, geospatial applications, product recommendations, or as an enabling technology for generative AI, Oracle can help. Both Oracle’s flagship Autonomous Database and Oracle HeatWave MySQL manage vectors as a native data type alongside many other data types for a simpler development experience. Both databases run on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. OCI is designed with the latest processors and supercluster architecture to efficiently handle the most demanding AI workloads, including generative AI, computer vision, and predictive analytics. Whether you build with Oracle Database or open source MySQL database, you can start taking advantage of vector search today.
In the age of generative AI, vector databases have become more important to businesses than ever before. As more development teams look to store and manage the vector data type, they’ll have a decision to make: Bring in a specialized, purpose-built vector database or use multimodel databases, such as Oracle Database, that support not only vectors but many other data types as well.
Vector databases are pivotal to exciting AI use cases, including chatbots that revolutionize customer service and algorithms that transform healthcare. See how companies are putting the power of vectors to work now.
Access the ebook
Vector Database FAQs
When should you use a vector database?
A vector database can be used for a wide variety of use cases, including geospatial applications, such as shipping logistics or environmental research, recommendations for retail or online entertainment options, or, more recently, as a primary storehouse for data that supports generative AI by individual organizations.
Does Netflix use vector databases?
Netflix announced it uses vector databases to support its popular recommendation engines. It applies vector embeddings to every piece of entertainment in its catalog and the vector database enables real-time search for similar titles.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
What’s new
Contact us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/developer/dev-tour/
Content:
Oracle Dev Tour
Save the date for Oracle Dev Tour:
Build with Data and AI
Calling all developers: Discover the latest advancements in Oracle’s AI, data, and multi-cloud technologies and engage with your peers in this developer-focused event designed to help you build more innovative solutions.
Subscribe for updates
Coming to a city near you
This developer tour offers a unique opportunity to enhance your skills and experience the cutting edge of innovation.
Discover practical insights and tools to create smarter, data-driven applications while connecting with industry leaders and fellow experts. Immerse yourself in an inspiring environment designed to foster learning and collaboration in today’s rapidly evolving tech landscape.
Meet us in these locations
In 2025, Oracle Dev Tour: Build with Data and AI is coming to three cities. Mark your calendar for the destination near you.
São Paulo
26 March 2025
World Trade Center São Paulo
Request to attend São Paulo
Berlin
6 May 2025
Spreespeicher
Register for Berlin
Bengaluru
14 May 2025
Sheraton Grand Bangalore Hotel at Brigade Gateway
Register for Bengaluru
See how the future of data and AI is developing at Oracle Dev Tour
Subscribe for updates
Follow Oracle Dev Tour: Build with Data and AI on social media
Oracle Dev Tour on X
Oracle Dev Tour on Facebook
Oracle Dev Tour on LinkedIn
Oracle Dev Tour on YouTube
Oracle Dev Tour on Instagram
#OracleDevTour
© 2025 Oracle Privacy/Do Not Sell My Info Cookie Preferences Ad Choices

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/cloud/economics/
Content:
Pricing
Cloud Economics
Cloud Price List
Cost Estimator
Universal Credits
Cloud
Cloud Economics
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure charges 50% less for compute, 70% less for block storage, 80% less for networking

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) enables customers to save consistently on compute, storage, and networking compared with AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud. Even with complicated and overlapping discount programs, other clouds are still more expensive than regular OCI pricing.
Try Oracle Cloud
Pricing
Compute
Networking
Storage
Containers and serverless
Distributed cloud
Government cloud
Customer-friendly pricing
Lower-priced infrastructure
OCI infrastructure—compute, storage, and networking—delivers the same or better performance at a consistently lower price than other cloud providers. OCI offers a modern cloud experience unencumbered by the legacy design choices other cloud providers have made; we redesigned our hardware on top of bare metal servers and use off-box virtualization for the control plane. Choose to pay less with OCI.
Learn more about OCI infrastructure
A data-friendly network
Companies like yours send vast quantities of data across the globe to customers, partners, branch offices, recovery sites, and other cloud providers. Instead of holding your data hostage with exorbitant egress fees, OCI offers 10 TB of free data egress every month and up to 10X lower network charges than other providers. Move your data wherever you want.
Learn more about OCI Networking
Consistently low global pricing
OCI provides a consistent pricing experience in every region worldwide, including government regions. Where other providers have both higher and different prices in almost every region outside the US, OCI customers enjoy the same services, performance, and prices everywhere. Enable your global strategy while staying within budget.
Learn more about pricing
Enterprise support included
OCI was purpose-built for mission-critical applications. The base fees for OCI services include enterprise-level support for those services. There is no extra charge for technical support for production workloads using OCI. This is in stark contrast with other cloud providers who can charge you 3% to 10% of the prior month’s (or year’s) bill, sometimes with a minimum fee, whether or not you ever contact support. Don’t pay extra for enterprise support.
Learn more about enterprise support (PDF)
Reduce your tech support bill
With Oracle Support Rewards, the more you use Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, the more you save. Customers can accrue US$0.25 to US$0.33 in rewards for every US$1 spent on OCI. Those rewards can be used to pay your on-premises tech software license support bill, even down to zero.1
Learn more about Support Rewards
Bring your own license
Keep your existing licenses for on-premises software at your negotiated rate when moving to supported OCI services or PaaS offerings. Use the Cost Estimator to model your savings.
Learn more about Bring Your Own License
Get help migrating
Oracle Cloud Lift Services provide guidance from cloud engineers on planning, architecting, prototyping, and managing cloud migrations. Clients can move critical workloads in weeks, or even days, instead of months by leveraging these included services for customer tenancies.2
Learn more about Cloud Lift Services
Choose the compute you need
Unlike some other providers, OCI Compute allows you to scale the size of a virtual machine by a single CPU core and 1 GB/core on AMD, Arm-based, and Intel processors, so you avoid overpaying for unneeded capacity. Other providers can require you to double your compute size even when you need just a little more capacity.
Learn more about OCI Compute
Save significantly on foundational services
50% less
For compute
70% less
For block storage
80% less
For networking
Compute: compared to 2 OCPU (4 vCPU) AMD (E4) with 16 GB over the period of a month.
Block storage: compared to 1 TB, 25K IOPS, 240 MB/s throughput over the period of a month.
Networking egress over the public internet for 50 TB over the period of a month.
On-demand prices as of December 6, 2024 in the eastern US region.
OCI Cost Estimator
Estimate your monthly costs when using Oracle Cloud Infrastructure services.
Estimate your costs
Compute: The foundation of cloud services
Compute is at the heart of all cloud services and is the most well-known offering, whether virtual machines, containers, or serverless functions. OCI Compute is designed from the ground up to capitalize on bare metal performance and off-box virtualization, both of which provide predictable performance and avoid the noisy neighbor effect.

OCI Compute is one of the fastest and most cost-effective ways to migrate your existing applications to the cloud without re-architecting.
Compare compute costs across clouds
For a similar configuration on current hardware, OCI costs less.
57%
Less than AWS m6a.xlarge
57%
Less than Azure D4as v5
51%
Less than Google Cloud n2d-standard-4
OCI Compute
Learn how you can save up to 72% in annual costs
Compared with the monthly cost of a two OCPU (four vCPU) AMD (E4) with 16 GB in US eastern regions. On-demand prices are as of December 6, 2024.
Monthly virtual machine cost
Virtual machines are a foundational service in the cloud, capable of running a variety of workloads. Virtual machines provide a high degree of control because you manage the operating system and any software you install.
The graph shows the costs of running a typically sized AMD-based virtual machine for an entire month. (Intel-based virtual machines show a similar trend.)
OCI charges the same in all regions, which is reflected in the graph. The other cloud providers charge a varying amount, depending on the region. The difference can be significant.
On-demand pricing—AMD, four vCPUs, 16 GB
Note: Google Cloud doesn’t offer government-only regions.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of a previous generation AMD-based compute virtual machine on OCI, AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud. A configuration of four vCPUs and 16 GB of memory is used for all comparisons.
Monthly bare metal server cost
Bare metal servers allow you to leverage the full power of a server, including your own hypervisor, on OCI. Bare metal servers are ideal for high performance computing (HPC) workloads, where many servers operate as a clustered unit.
The graph shows the cost of running a bare metal server for an entire month. Similar to virtual machines, OCI charges the same for the same bare metal servers in all regions, which is reflected in the graph. The other cloud provider charges a varying amount, depending on the region.
On-demand pricing—AMD, 256 vCPUs, 2,048 GB
Note: Azure hasn’t publicly identified a replacement for their BareMetal series, and Google Cloud doesn’t publish pricing for their bare metal offering.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of a bare metal server on OCI and AWS.The bare metal server is based on an AMD processor. The server specifications for OCI are 128 OCPUs and 2,048 GB of memory. The server specifications for AWS are 192 vCPUs (which equate to 96 CPU cores) and 768 GB of memory.
Monthly GPU-enabled virtual machine cost
Graphical processing units (GPUs) enable you to perform many computationally demanding tasks, such as AI training and inferencing, data science activities, and computational fluid dynamics.
There are multiple GPUs available. This graph focuses on the NVIDIA A10 GPU to illustrate the clearest comparison between cloud providers. To provide the best performance, each cloud provider preconfigures the virtual machine to balance the CPU, memory, and GPU.
The graph shows the cost of running a preconfigured virtual machine with an NVIDIA A10 GPU for an entire month. OCI charges the same in all regions, whereas other cloud providers charge a varying amount depending on the region.
On-demand pricing—30 to 36 vCPUs, 128 to 440 GB
Note: Google Cloud doesn’t offer a virtual machine with the NVIDIA A10 GPU.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of a standard virtual machine with the NVIDIA A10 GPU on OCI, AWS, and Azure. Google Cloud doesn’t offer a virtual machine with the NVIDIA A10 GPU.
Monthly GPU-enabled bare metal instance cost
For AI and ML workloads that demand extreme performance, including clustering, OCI offers NVIDIA A100 80GB GPUs on bare metal instances. The comparison shows the closest comparison with other cloud providers, who offer only virtual machines for this configuration.
The graph shows the cost of running a preconfigured bare metal instance on OCI with eight NVIDIA A100 80GB GPUs for an entire month. OCI charges the same in all regions, whereas other cloud providers charge a varying amount depending on the region.
On-demand pricing—96 to 512 vCPUs, 1,152 to 2,048 GB
Note: The NVIDIA A100 80GB has limited availability.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of a standard bare metal or virtual machine with the NVIDIA A100 GPU with 80 GB of memory on OCI, AWS, and Azure. Only OCI offers the NVIDIA A100 GPU with 80 GB of memory on bare metal; all the other hyperscalers only offer it on a virtual machine.
Flexible compute lets you save
OCI Compute allows you to match virtual machine resources to your workloads. You can scale by a single CPU core, which is equivalent to two vCPUs in other clouds, and you can scale memory in 1 GB increments per core. You can rightsize your performance—and cost—to meet your needs.
Other clouds provide compute in fixed sizes that typically double as they get bigger. Even if you need just a little bit more performance, you might have to double your compute size—and cost—to achieve it, which could result in significant overspending.
The graph shows the cost per hour of the latest AMD-based virtual machines at multiple sizes, from 2 to 96 vCPUs. All cloud providers have multiple sizes in the smaller range, but if you have a workload that needs 40 vCPUs, for example, you may have to purchase 48 vCPUs (AWS, Azure) or 60 vCPUs (Google Cloud) to achieve that performance. OCI lets you precisely select and scale your compute performance.
Per-hour virtual machine cost at multiple sizes
This line chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of the latest AMD-based compute virtual machines on OCI, AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud. Customer workloads can vary in performance needs, which is why a range of vCPU sizes is shown, from 2 to 96 vCPUs.
You can save with OCI
OCI offers globally consistent pricing, flexible consumption and deployment models, security services, and enterprise support included at no additional cost. Request a free cloud bill comparison today to see how much you could save by migrating some or all of your workloads to OCI.
Request a bill comparison
Networking: The key to connecting cloud services
Networking enables cloud services to operate, communicate, and scale. OCI Networking allows you to create virtual data centers in the cloud that are securely isolated but fully connected to the entire range of OCI services.

Network design significantly impacts application performance. OCI created a nonblocking network that provides performance guarantees.
Compare data egress costs across clouds
For 50 TB of data egress, OCI costs less.
92%
Less than AWS
90%
Less than Azure standard tier
90%
Less than Google Cloud
OCI Networking
Compared with the monthly cost of outbound data leaving US regions. Prices are as of December 6, 2024.
Monthly data egress fees
Public internet
A per-byte fee is charged for data leaving a region—a data egress cost. Because the networking infrastructure is owned by different companies, the pricing varies across the globe for all cloud providers.
However, the other cloud providers can use data egress fees to trap your data by making it too expensive to move data outside of one of their regions.
OCI is different. OCI includes 10 TB of monthly data egress for free, which is significantly more than the other cloud providers. After the free 10 TB, OCI charges significantly less. This graph shows how your costs can escalate as you move more data from different cloud providers’ global regions to a US destination.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of data movement from a cloud provider’s region to an external destination over the internet. Where there are multiple tiers of public internet access, the standard or least expensive tier has been selected.

Private line, 10 Gb/sec
If you need more control or consistent connectivity, you can use a private line service. A private (or dedicated) line can have two pricing components: a “port” charge and a per-byte charge.
OCI is again different because there is no per-byte charge. All the other cloud providers have both a port and per-byte charge.
For a dedicated, 10 Gb/sec connect, the pricing difference is significant. The OCI FastConnect service is just US$931 per month, regardless of how much data is transferred. The other cloud providers start charging significantly more when the data volume increases.
The pricing doesn’t include the third-party cost of the private line itself, which varies globally.
Note: Azure costs are based on the best metered or unlimited prices.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of data movement from a cloud provider’s region to an external destination over a 10 Gb/sec dedicated connection.
Speedy storage: High I/O rate and dynamic performance
Some workloads require demanding I/O: high operations per second and high throughput bandwidth. OCI offers flexible, NVMe-based block storage volumes with the ability to select your desired performance—and only OCI provides a performance SLA for block storage.

You can change the performance of OCI Block Volumes dynamically without detaching or recreating them. You can also enable automatic tuning so the performance of the volumes adjusts between limits you set—all at competitively low prices.
Compare block storage costs across clouds
For a similar configuration on current hardware, OCI costs less.
82%
Less than AWS
gp3, 100 GB, 6K IOPS
82%
Less than Azure
Premium SSD v2, 100 GB, 6K IOPS
75%
Less than Google Cloud
Hyperdisk Balanced, 100 GB, 6K IOPS
OCI storage
Compared with OCI block storage, 100 GB, balanced performance, 6K IOPS. Prices are as of December 6, 2024.
Monthly block storage cost
On-demand pricing for balanced performance, from 6K to 25K IOPS
Block storage is the performant storage you attach to virtual machines or bare metal servers. In addition to size, you can select performance characteristics, such as the throughput (measured in MB/sec) and I/O operations (measured in input/output operations per second (IOPS)).
For moderate workloads, a balanced performance is sufficient, which means lower performance characteristics.
The graph shows the cost of block storage that provides 6K IOPS. If the cloud provider offered multiple options, including the need to purchase “performance credits,” the cheapest option was selected. Additional options, such as replication, were declined. For AWS, the choice was gp3. For Azure, it was Premium SSD v2. For Google Cloud, it was either Hyperdisk Balanced or Extreme Persistent Disk.
OCI provides the needed performance at a significantly lower cost for the selected sizes.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of block storage that can be attached to a virtual machine. The comparison was performed using costs for the eastern US region, where the pricing is lowest.

On-demand pricing for high performance, from 8K to 300K IOPS
Block storage needs to provide significantly more performance for high performance workloads, such as a database or HPC. With large workloads, the performance demands can escalate significantly as the size increases.
The graph shows the cost of block storage that provides increasing throughput, from 38K IOPS up to a blistering 300K IOPS, as the storage size increases.
Again, the cheapest option was selected for each cloud provider and any additional options were declined. For AWS, the choice was io2, as gp3 tops out at just 16K IOPS. For Azure, it was Premium SSD v2, except for the most demanding use case, where Ultra Disk was chosen. For Google Cloud, it was Hyperdisk Balanced, except for the most demanding use case, where Hyperdisk Extreme was chosen.
OCI again provides the needed performance at a significantly lower cost for the selected sizes.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost of block storage that can be attached to a virtual machine. The comparison was performed using costs for the eastern US region, where the pricing is lowest.
Containers and serverless: Enabling cloud native development
Cloud native architectures and modern technologies (including microservices, containers, Kubernetes, and serverless) are transforming the way we design, develop, and ship applications. OCI provides rapid time to value when building modern apps.

OCI Kubernetes Engine (OKE) enables you to simplify the operation of enterprise-grade Kubernetes as a managed service. Serverless Kubernetes allows you to scale your containerized application without manually administrating the clusters.
Compare serverless Kubernetes costs across clouds
OKE provides more value for less money for serverless operations.
68%
Less than Amazon EKS with AWS Fargate
68%
Less than Azure AKS with virtual nodes
70%
Less than Google Cloud GKE Autopilot
OCI cloud native
See the serverless Kubernetes cost comparison blog post for details
Compared with OKE virtual nodes, the monthly cost of a 20-pod cluster on serverless Kubernetes with 16 vCPUs and 64 GiB of memory per pod. Prices are as of December 13, 2024.
Monthly pricing for serverless Kubernetes on x86
Kubernetes provides sophisticated resource management, including the ability to specify CPUs and memory limits for containers. Kubernetes can help you simplify operations with automation, save time on infrastructure management, increase resource utilization and efficiency, and improve agility, flexibility, uptime, and resilience.
The graph shows the monthly cost of serverless Kubernetes on x86 with Linux using a 20-pod cluster with 16 vCPUs and 64 GiB of memory per pod.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of a serverless Kubernetes cluster on OCI Kubernetes Engine (OKE) virtual nodes, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) with AWS Fargate, Azure Kubernetes Engine (AKS) virtual nodes, and Google Cloud Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Autopilot.

Monthly pricing for serverless Kubernetes on Arm
Arm processors are significantly more power-efficient than x86, often making them the preferred choice for cost-effective containerized applications orchestrated by Kubernetes. Both Arm and x86 are available with OKE, allowing you to choose the one that best suits your specific needs.
The graph shows the monthly cost of serverless Kubernetes on Arm with Linux using a 20-pod cluster with 16 vCPUs and 64 GiB of memory per pod.
Note: Azure AKS virtual nodes don’t offer support for Arm shapes.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of a serverless Kubernetes cluster on OCI Kubernetes Engine (OKE) virtual nodes, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) with AWS Fargate, Azure Kubernetes Engine (AKS) virtual nodes, and Google Cloud Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Autopilot.
Distributed cloud: Put the cloud where you need it
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure’s distributed cloud offers customers the flexibility to deploy their workloads wherever they like—even across multiple clouds—with the benefits of cloud innovation and greater control over data residency, locality, and authority. Customers use OCI’s distributed cloud to satisfy their business, regulatory, and performance requirements, which are often not met by other public cloud providers.
OCI pricing is consistent across all regions
Other cloud providers charge higher prices in different regions for the same services.
AWS
59% higher
in the AWS São Paulo region than in the US East region for the same AWS m6a.xlarge instance type
Azure
60% higher
in the Azure São Paulo region than in the East US region for the same Azure D4as v5 virtual machine type
Google Cloud
41% higher
in the Google Cloud São Paulo region than in us-east1 for the same Google Cloud n2d-standard-4 VM
OCI distributed cloud
On-demand prices are as of December 6, 2024.
Percentage price increase over a US region for the same VM type
OCI is unique among the cloud providers in that it provides the same services at the same prices in all regions. This provides customers with the confidence to add or move workloads as needed without encountering unexpected expenses.
The other cloud providers can charge significantly more for the same service. The graph shows how the price of the same virtual machine can vary dramatically from the price in the provider’s US eastern regions. For example, both AWS and Azure charge almost 60% more for the same virtual machine in the Brazil region.
This bar chart shows a comparison of the cost (in US dollars) of a standard virtual machine in the eastern US region and non-US regions, including Brazil, the UK, Germany, Singapore, Japan, and Australia.
Government cloud: The same price as commercial
OCI Government Cloud—for IaaS and PaaS—is priced the same as our commercial public cloud and meets U.S. Defense Department (Impact Levels 2 and 4) and FedRAMP High authorization standards. Oracle also operates a sovereign, dual-region service in the UK for UK government and defense customers.
Commercial customers who need to meet government accreditation requirements should consider using OCI Government Cloud, which can enable them to achieve their compliance goals.
OCI Government Cloud

Service OCI SKU OCI hourly cost AWS SKU AWS hourly cost Azure SKU Azure hourly cost
Virtual machine, 4 vCPUs, 16 GB VM.Standard.E4.Flex $0.07 D4as v5 $0.22
Storage optimized virtual machine, 16 vCPUs, 120 GB VM.DenseIO.E4.Flex $0.85 i3.4xlarge $1.50 L16s v3 $1.65
Bare metal 128 vCPUs, 1024 GB BM.Standard3.64 $4.10 m6i.metal $7.74
Managed Kubernetes, 192 vCPU, 1,536 GB VM.Standard.E4.Flex $4.80 r5a.16xlarge $13.16 E64as v5 $13.16
Block storage, 1 TB, 1 volume, 15K IOPS, 125 MB/sec Block storage (balanced) $0.06 EBS gp3 $0.28 Premium SSD v2, LRS $0.29
Data egress, 50 TB First 10,000 GB free $0.47 First 100 GB free $5.88 First 100 GB free $4.65
Private line, 10 Gb/sec, 326 TB (10% of bandwidth) FastConnect circuit fee $1.28 Direct Connect $11.25 Express Route $17.07
All prices assume 730 hours per month and constant usage throughout the month. Prices rounded to the nearest cent.
Try Oracle Cloud today.
Learn more about Oracle Cloud Free Tier
Discounting made simple
OCI
Oracle offers Universal Credits, which can be used for IaaS and PaaS services across all regions. You aren’t restricted to a particular compute type or service, and you don’t need to specify your allocations in advance.
If your needs change, if your workloads shift, or if new services are offered, you can switch and still use your Universal Credits for a discount.
You can commit to one or three years; increased commitment levels result in higher discounts. If you use up your Universal Credits before the end of the term, you still enjoy the discounted service rates for the rest of your term.
OCI also offers reserved capacity, provisioned concurrency, preemptible instances, and more. And you can bring your Oracle licenses from on-premises (PDF).
AWS
AWS offers a commitment-based discount, known as an Enterprise Discount Program (EDP). AWS also offers reserved instances, an EC2 discount savings plan, a compute discount savings plan, a SageMaker discount savings plan, and spot instances.
Not all discount savings plans are compatible with an EDP, which means you have to estimate your usage over the next year or three years if you want to take advantage of them.
What if your needs change? If you commit to a savings plan, you’re locked in. Some discount programs are tied to a specific region, requiring you to guess which region will be best. If a new region opens up, your discount program might not be applicable there.
If you’re bringing your Oracle Database licenses, you get twice as many CPUs on OCI as you do on AWS (PDF).
Azure
Azure offers a commitment-based discount, known as an Enterprise Agreement (EA). Azure also offers reserved instances, a savings plan for compute, Azure Hybrid Benefit, and spot instances.
The savings plan for compute isn’t listed as compatible with an EA, which means you have to estimate your usage over the next year or three years if you want to take advantage of it.
What if your needs change? If you commit to the savings plan, you’re locked in. Or, if you choose reserved virtual machines, you’re tied to a specific region, requiring you to guess which region will be best. If a new region opens up, your reserved virtual machine won’t be transferable.
If you’re bringing your Oracle Database licenses, you get twice as many CPUs on OCI as you do on Azure (PDF).
Google Cloud
Formally, Google Cloud doesn’t advertise an enterprise discount that applies to all services. Google does state in their financial filings that they do offer discounts to customers, but they don’t disclose if these discounts are part of a program or custom discounts offered per customer.
Google Cloud also offers an automatic discount (sustained use discount) and two forms of a commitment-based discount (committed use discounts). These discounts can’t be combined with each other and may or may not be able to be combined with an enterprise agreement. You have to estimate your usage over the next year or three years if you want to take advantage of committed use discounts.
What if your needs change? If you commit to the committed use discount, you’re locked in. For some services, the committed use discount is tied to a specific region, requiring you to guess which region will be best. If a new region opens up, your discount might not be applicable there.
Additional cloud economics resources
What Is Cloud Economics?
What Is Data Egress? Ingress vs. Egress
Cloud Data Egress Costs: What They Are & How to Reduce Them
What Is Cloud Cost Management?
What Is Cloud Cost Optimization? Strategy & Best Practices
1 Paying down the technology support bill is subject to regional tax regulations. Taxes can’t be paid with Support Rewards. Only the pretax invoice amount can be paid with Support Rewards.
2 Cloud Lift Services are available in many regions. Contact your account team for details and availability.
Unless otherwise stated, all prices were current as of December 6, 2024.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
What’s new
Contact us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/cloud/sovereign-cloud/what-is-sovereign-cloud/
Content:
Cloud Distributed Cloud Sovereign Cloud
What Is a Sovereign Cloud? Why Is It Important?
Alan Zeichick | Content Strategist | October 13, 2023
Start with a proposition: Some or all of your organization’s data must stay within a certain national or regional geographic boundary, whether a state or country or a broader region, such as the European Union. The reasons for this requirement vary. Perhaps there are governmental rules covering your industry, or perhaps you manage specific types of regulated data, such as personally identifiable information (PII). Perhaps there are business-specific or competitive concerns. Whatever the underlying reason, the requirement is called digital sovereignty or data sovereignty.
The latter term, however, is a bit of a misnomer. In many cases, sovereignty compliance requirements go beyond the storage of database tables. All the computers that process regulated data may be required to be within a geography, along with all the networks, data flows, backups, and disaster recovery systems. Sometimes, even the people who have access to regulated systems must be citizens of that jurisdiction or have security clearances.
One way organizations can satisfy digital sovereignty requirements is to store everything in a local data center. Another is to use the cloud—specifically a sovereign cloud that offers all the advantages of cloud computing while helping to meet some digital sovereignty requirements.
Let’s explore the requirements for digital sovereignty and how a sovereign cloud can help an organization stay compliant.
What Is a Sovereign Cloud?
A sovereign cloud is a cloud environment that helps an organization meet its digital sovereignty requirements. Under most sovereignty frameworks, organizations look to protect personal information about individuals. However, sometimes the scope is broader, encompassing intellectual property, software, business methods, financial data, information about IT infrastructure, and even metadata that describes how big a data set is and how quickly it’s growing. A sovereign cloud may be housed at a facility owned by a cloud computing provider and accessed by an organization’s user and non-cloud IT systems over the internet or via dedicated communications links that aren’t connected to the internet.
A sovereign cloud may also be configured as a separate “cloudlike” installation within a large organization’s own data center; the installation acts like a cloud environment and is maintained by the cloud service provider, but it’s physically isolated from the outside world.
A sovereign cloud will have some level of one or more of the following six capabilities; specifics will depend on geographic, regional, and other requirements.
Access restrictions that limit use of the sovereign cloud to users, software, systems, and services belonging to a specific company and its partners, customers, and suppliers; specific geographic regions; or even individuals within an organization who have specific citizenship or security clearances.
Organizational control over where the sovereign cloud is located, such as a certain country or region, or whether the cloud is in a service provider’s data center or the customer’s data center, often referred to as data residency.
Compliance with specific governmental, regulatory, or industry requirements, including technical specifications, as well as specific legal, contractual, and business practices to meet relevant laws and regulations.
Operational support from the cloud service provider that meets high customer expectations and legal requirements for the security clearances, citizenship, and residency of its employees.
Dedicated network capacity, which may mean anything from secure VPNs over the public internet to air-gapped regions that are completely isolated from the internet and the cloud provider’s other customers.
Sophisticated encryption that could involve the cloud service provider maintaining encryption keys or the customer bringing their own keys—which the cloud service provider can never see or access.

Key Takeaways
Implementing digital sovereignty via a sovereign cloud helps with data compliance, technical expertise, business and continuity assurance, supply chain efficiency, and geopolitical resilience.
Challenges for cloud sovereignty include finding a service provider that knows all the rules, can help determine the necessary levels of protection, and holds the relevant certifications and the proper legal entities for compliance.
Sovereign clouds are generally connected to the internet and accessed by secure, encrypted links and protocols. In some cases, an air-gapped cloud may be required.
Data sovereignty requires that data be encrypted with an approved set of protocols, whether it’s stored in a database or file system or being transmitted over a network.
Assume that digital sovereignty laws and regulations will increase in number and complexity and financial and criminal penalties for failing compliance audits or having data breaches that expose regulated data will be harsh.
Sovereign Cloud Explained
To understand what a sovereign cloud can do, imagine you run a company that does business in the European Union (EU). The EU is an ideal test case because not only does it have overall requirements but so too do each of its member nations. Therefore, every organization charged with maintaining digital sovereignty within the EU must meet both EU and national requirements.
Within the EU, cloud sovereignty laws are guided by an interlocked web of regulators, and regulations are constantly changed—in general, to be stricter. Much of that regulatory evolution is driven by national parliaments and the European Parliament in Brussels in response to both citizens’ demands and constant political pressure for protection against foreign business interests, law enforcement, and courts. That’s where laws such as the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) come in.
Imagine that an organization has subsidiaries with offices, employees, and customers in both Germany and France. There may be some data that can be shared between the two countries while complying with EU requirements, while other data may be restricted by German or French laws and must remain only within the specific country. Both the customer organization and the cloud service provider share responsibility for ensuring the sovereign cloud can meet all those requirements and—just as critical—that it’s configured to do so in ways that are demonstrable to all parties.
A proper EU-compliant sovereign cloud will include EU-wide sovereignty to provide customers with control over data and data flows in compliance with EU regulations, include non-EU access protections to detect, challenge, and block access from outside the EU, and, as appropriate, handle stakeholder notifications and allowable waivers.
Benefits of Cloud Sovereignty
Establishing a sovereign cloud can be a complex undertaking, even with a capable provider. However, it pays off in a variety of ways. First and foremost: compliance. Cloud sovereignty broadly addresses geographic, political, and industry regulations, data portability, and compliant data transfers within and between regulatory domains.
In addition, a sovereign cloud delivers the following benefits:
Technical solutions and expertise companies may not have in-house
Digital sovereignty can pose difficult changes on the technical front, especially if an organization wishes to maintain interoperability and portability. A well-constructed sovereign cloud offers both regulatory compliance and open standards.
Operational best practices
A sovereign cloud provider will have in place strong operational controls, such as authorized key access for customers or the ability to bring your own keys, as well as administration, logging, and technical support.
Business and continuity assurance
A sovereign cloud installed and maintained by a top-tier provider offers all the scalability, business continuity and disaster recovery, redundancy, portability, and performance of a first-class cloud—with digital sovereignty as well.
Supply chain sufficiency
A cloud service provider that offers a sovereign cloud can often go beyond a single customer organization’s ability to source servers, networks, chips, cabling, and the energy, facilities, staffing, and training required for round-the-clock availability.
Geopolitical resilience
A sovereign cloud service provider with global reach can help organizations weather challenges posed by military conflicts, economic hardships, climate change, and other large-scale disasters, helping ensure their sustainability.
5 Factors to Consider When Adopting a Sovereign Cloud
For organizations in heavily regulated industries, running a sovereign cloud inside an owned data center may previously have been the only option. Today, cloud providers can offload much of that burden. But there are five key factors to consider when deciding to move ahead.
Scale
With a sovereign cloud, an organization can leverage the flexibility, scalability, performance, and cost benefits of cloud computing while remaining compliant with digital sovereignty regulations.
Control
Cloud sovereignty gives an organization considerable control over its data and IT infrastructure, allowing it to not only comply with data sovereignty regulations but also implement strong internal practices and policies.
Expertise
Sovereign cloud service providers have an interest in helping customers meet their regulatory, legal, and technical requirements, so investigate what expertise and tools are available that can make the move to the cloud more efficient.
Flexibility
An organization can use both its internal IT resources and a sovereign cloud to build a regulatory-compliant hybrid environment that delivers the best of both traditional and cloud computing.
Timeliness
Both the customer and cloud service provider must keep up to date with the latest regulatory trends and frameworks. This work can develop into a partnership where both the organization and the provider work hard to ensure compliance, thereby reducing the risk of missing regulatory changes.
5 Challenges of Cloud Sovereignty
Despite the benefits, establishing cloud sovereignty requires an organization’s IT team to overcome some obstacles, including:
1. Finding a service provider that knows the rules
Digital sovereignty laws and regulations are complex and becoming more so constantly. Whether organizations use a sovereign cloud or a traditional data center, the regulatory landscape makes it difficult to know what's compliant and what isn’t. A full-service sovereign cloud provider will have both the expertise and processes to keep its offerings up to date as regulations change.
2. Determining the necessary levels of protection
Does an organization merely need to ensure that personally identifiable information (PII) is properly encrypted and stored within national boundaries, or does regulatory compliance extend to the servers housing a document repository, the control systems, and the citizenship and security clearances of all staff with physical access to the hardware? You can’t comply until you know what’s required.
3. Designing a disaster recovery architecture
Cloud sovereignty can apply to not only the primary data center but also all backup recovery sites and facilities, which means the cloud service provider must have sufficient resources to offer such facilities within the defined jurisdiction.
4. Robustness and completeness of the sovereign cloud
Some service providers have built specialized sovereign cloud offerings. As a result, the applications, features, and services they offer in their public clouds may not be available, or fully available, in their sovereign cloud.
5. Acquiring a full set of certifications and legal entities
Some regulatory regimes require the sovereign cloud to be owned and operated by a service provider headquartered and owned within the specific geographic region. Ensure that a global cloud service provider has the right partnerships, licenses, and legal frameworks in place to meet those requirements.
5 Key Features of Sovereign Clouds
Companies looking to establish sovereign clouds will need to consider their requirements for these five key features, in addition to any industry-specific or competitive factors at play.
1. Location
Carefully select the location of your sovereign cloud data center and backup locations based on both compliance regulations and business considerations. Data points to collect include the location(s) of the provider's cloud data centers, the location(s) of other data centers owned by partners, and whether a dedicated sovereign cloud inside the customer's own facility is feasible.
2. Access control
An organization should always be able to choose which companies, partners, and customers—and software and services—can access its cloud environment. In some cases, such as when national security is at stake, the customer may choose a fully dedicated facility.
3. Operations and support
An organization should control which administrative and technical staff, from both the cloud provider and its partners, may have access to their systems, as well as to metadata about those systems, such as performance and utilization metrics.
4. Regulatory compliance
Sovereign cloud deployments must be flexible when enabling compliance with regulations and security standards to reflect the possibility of overlapping jurisdictions, each with its own requirements. In some cases, a customer may have unique needs for specific regulatory controls and accreditations.
5. Internet connection or air gap
For many or most customers, an encrypted connection to the public internet may be the best, most affordable, and fully compliant network link. However, some customers or applications may require air-gapped regions totally isolated from the internet or other networks.
Data Sovereignty and Encryption
You can’t have data sovereignty without encryption, and that goes for data stored in databases, the APIs and other services that provide access to those databases and applications, and also user interfaces. Encryption is a complex subject due to the number and versions of commonly used algorithms, the size of the keys, and regulations regarding storage of and access to the encryption keys. This reality is true whether data sovereignty is enabled within a traditional data center or in a sovereign cloud—though in the case of the cloud, questions about the storage of and access to encryption keys must be resolved in a way that is both compliant and meets business needs.
When a cloud service provider manages the keys, the master encryption key is generated by the sovereign cloud software; when the customer manages the keys, the master encryption key is stored within a secure key vault the provider can’t access. The hardware security module (HSM) comprising those key vaults should be both tamper resistant and tamper evident and able to react if attacked.
Data stored in a database or in a document—sometimes called “data at rest”—should be encrypted by default. This includes data in traditional relational databases, Docker/Kubernetes containers, object databases, file systems, block databases, and even boot records.
Information that is being transmitted over a network—sometimes called “data in transit”—should use up-to-date protocols compliant with standards such as Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2 or later and X.509 digital certificates, at a minimum. Local regulations may require even stricter encryption, such as MACsec (IEEE 802.1AE) for Ethernet networks. Such encryption should be enabled by default and never allow data transmission in plain text.
The Future of Sovereignty
Data sovereignty may have exploded into public view with the passage of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in 2016, but that was only the beginning. Each year, countries around the world, as well as regions such as the European Union, revise their data sovereignty requirements. They’re tightening the standards to eliminate ambiguity, reduce weaknesses, improve consumer and political confidence, protect businesses, and respond to geopolitical situations, such as economic conflicts, military conflicts, terrorism, and cybercrime.
Here's one prediction: Digital sovereignty laws and regulations will increase in number and complexity.
Here’s another: Financial and criminal penalties for failing compliance audits or having data breaches that expose regulated data will be harsh.
According to IDC, due to recent economic and geopolitical events, at least 75% of global businesses consider digital sovereignty to be increasing in importance as a business and technology concern. Improving and implementing privacy measures is now the top priority for multinationals.
What’s more, reports IDC, at least half of enterprises will spend more than 25% of their total budgets on the public cloud, with infrastructure as a service (IaaS) in use by 56%. This is prompting increased focus on the cloud component of digital sovereignty requirements.
Fears driving the providers of sovereign clouds, adds IDC, include protecting customer data from access by admin and support staff as well as maintaining business continuity and compliance with disaster recovery regulations.
Resilience is clearly the name of the game.
Overall, cloud sovereignty is a relatively new concept; organizations are only just starting to understand all the implications it will have on their cloud strategies. Implementing a sovereign cloud means coming to grips with new IT requirements for infrastructure, strategy, governance frameworks, and skills. As the sovereign cloud is a long-term play, organizations are focusing on the domains and regulatory environments that have the most-rigorous regulations while investing in monitoring new legislation and changes to industry rules. Because once regulations tighten, they’ll never loosen—it’s a one-way trip.
Choosing a Sovereign Cloud Vendor
When choosing a sovereign cloud solutions provider, look for the vendor that delivers the best overall cloud solution that also helps meet your digital sovereignty requirements. Ideally, the services available in the sovereign cloud will be the same as those offered in the provider’s public cloud, with the same service-level agreements (SLAs) for performance, management, and availability.
Ideally, the services available in the sovereign cloud will be the same as those offered in the provider’s public cloud, with the same service-level agreements (SLAs) for performance, management, and availability.
One major factor to consider is whether you can go with a single-vendor solution, which is owned and operated by an approved legal entity within the regulated region. Joint ventures and partnerships can lead to finger-pointing over support issues, integration complexities, slower product releases, and, in some cases, fewer available features.
A sovereign cloud provider should offer data sovereignty as an essential feature of its cloud, not as a bolt-on package or subset of its public offerings. That will make deployment easier because the sovereign cloud uses the same hardware, software, and services as the public cloud, just with greater access control and other compliance restrictions enabled.
Disaster recovery is critical for sovereign cloud planning and deployments; look for cloud regions within the geography that can be configured with recovery and failover remaining within the compliance area.
A sovereign cloud vendor should also have the expertise to help navigate the complex, ever-changing web of regulations. The vendor and the customer should be able to seamlessly share responsibility for compliance, including accreditations as necessary.
Meet Sovereignty Requirements with Oracle Cloud
Oracle Cloud solutions for sovereignty help clients meet their needs for cloud computing involving data and applications that are sensitive, regulated, or of strategic regional importance, as well as workloads governed by sovereignty and data privacy requirements.
Offered in an increasing number of countries and regions around the world, Oracle’s sovereign cloud solutions provide the services and capabilities of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) and help customers meet their digital sovereignty requirements.
For example, with Oracle EU Sovereign Cloud, customers can use the same 100 services available in Oracle’s public cloud regions with the same prices, support, workloads, and SLAs for performance, management, and availability as the standard OCI offering but with a physically separated infrastructure and additional safeguards to protect customer data from jurisdictions outside the EU.
Oracle EU Sovereign Cloud, available since June 2023, is located entirely within the European Union, supported by EU-based personnel, and operated by separate legal entities incorporated within the EU. In addition to the more than 100 cloud services already offered, Oracle applications, such as the Oracle Fusion Cloud Applications Suite, will be available as well.
Designed for data residency and security, the Oracle EU Sovereign Cloud is housed in physically isolated data center space and has no backbone network connection to Oracle’s other cloud regions. Customer access to Oracle EU Sovereign Cloud is managed separately from access to Oracle Cloud’s commercial regions.
Customers control access to their cloud environments, the location where their data is hosted, and other options to meet their security needs.

In addition, Oracle Cloud is designed for high availability within each cloud region to support disaster recovery within national or regional boundaries—for example, Oracle has dual government cloud regions and commercial cloud regions in Wales. Oracle’s sovereign cloud solutions offer organizations operations, support, and policies that are distinct from commercial cloud regions to streamline and simplify compliance with data privacy and sovereignty guidelines and requirements, even for sensitive customers such as those in the intelligence community or the geospatial industry.
For those organizations that are required to maintain their own encryption keys, or that choose to do so for business reasons, a new OCI External Key Management Service is now generally available in Oracle Cloud. With this service, encryption keys always stay in the custody of the customer and are never imported into OCI, enabling customers to move regulated workloads to OCI while complying with the requirement to store keys outside the cloud.
Oracle provides a broad and consistent set of cloud infrastructure services across 46 commercial, sovereign, and government cloud regions in 23 countries to serve its growing global customer base. As of October 2023, Oracle currently operates 36 commercial regions, 2 EU sovereign regions, and 8 government regions, in addition to multiple dedicated and national security regions.
Another Oracle Cloud offering that can be used for sovereign cloud deployments is Oracle Alloy, a complete cloud infrastructure platform that enables partners to become cloud providers and offer a full range of cloud services. Partners can operate Oracle Alloy independently in their own data centers and fully control its operations to better fulfill digital sovereignty regulatory requirements.
In addition, Oracle Roving Edge Infrastructure extends the power of the cloud beyond the data center, allowing organizations to run selected cloud capabilities in remote and austere environments.
One Step Further: Oracle Sovereign Cloud for National Security
Government networks and highly classified workloads may require customer accreditations and compliance requirements that surpass those of internet-connected sovereign cloud regions. In such cases, Oracle National Security Regions offer additional protection, including the following:
Government accreditation: Oracle National Security Regions can be certified to the highest government classifications and standards while offering the same services as Oracle’s sovereign cloud and public cloud regions.
Air-gapped data centers: They are deployed in facilities built to government specifications that meet and exceed government standards and are not connected to the internet.
Secure operations: They are operated and supported by local citizens who maintain customer-specific security clearances.
IDC defines “sovereignty” as the capacity for digital self-determination by nations, companies, or individuals. Sovereign clouds allow organizations to use cloud computing while meeting the stringent demands of their national, regional, and industry data sovereignty regulations. With a sovereign cloud, organizations can control their deployment’s location, accessibility, operations, support, regulatory requirements, and even internet connectivity.
Beyond simply keeping data about people private, digital sovereignty affects technical and operational controls, data assurance policies, and even technology supply chains.
Oracle Sovereign Cloud: Access management
Manage access to your data and the underlying infrastructure, both by limiting access and ensuring data availability and portability for those you authorize.
Learn more about Oracle Sovereign Cloud
Sovereign Cloud FAQs
What is data sovereignty?
Governments continually pass laws and regulations about how critical digital information must be stored, where it must be stored, and who is allowed to access it. Data sovereignty encompasses compliance with those laws and regulations by organizations and individuals.
What is a sovereign cloud?
A sovereign cloud is a cloud computing environment that helps the customer ensure that all digital information—including stored data and software as well as data in transit across networks—is compliant with data sovereignty laws and regulations.
What is an example of a data sovereignty law?
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), enacted by the European Union in 2016, has comprehensive requirements for organizations that collect and process the personal information of individuals in the EU.
Who can access information in a sovereign cloud?
Data sovereignty laws may restrict data access to software, services, and users within a specific geography, to companies owned locally, or to those that have specific security clearances or other permissions.
Are sovereign clouds connected to the internet?
For many users, sovereign clouds are connected to the internet via encrypted links with strong access controls. For some government users and highly secure applications, however, the sovereign cloud may be air-gapped and totally disconnected from the internet.
Are cloud backups and disaster recovery scenarios subject to data sovereignty rules?
Yes. Backups and disaster recovery sites must be fully compliant with data sovereignty rules; for cloud sovereignty, that means secondary cloud regions must be within the same geography or regulatory domain.
Why is location important for cloud sovereignty?
Having the ability to choose the geographic regions where they store their data is important for organizations that need to retain control over their data to comply with data sovereignty laws and regulations.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
What’s new
Contact us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/partner/
Content:
Oracle's Newly Enhanced PartnerNetwork Program
For more than 40 years, Oracle has been working closely with partners to help drive joint customer success and business momentum. We are incredibly proud of our impact helping organizations automate their operations so they can achieve more with less, and we've enhanced our partner program to further improve our collaboration and the value we deliver to customers. Join the program so we can win and succeed more together.
"We're providing choice and flexibility so you can tailor the program in whatever way is most valuable to you."
— Leah Yomtovian, SVP, Partner and Operations Strategy, Oracle
Cloud
Industry Healthcare
License & Hardware
Why Partner with Oracle?
Accelerate your business momentum and drive greater customer success through:
Training and Enablement
Increase your teams' productivity and performance, ensuring they are sales ready, delivery ready, and success ready.
Go-To-Market Collaboration
Leverage Oracle expertise to position and sell joint solutions and services.
Technical Accelerators
Shorten sales cycles with integration validations, development and testing environments, and other programs.
Success Support
Capitalize on a wide range of resources to enable customer success and, ultimately, your success.
Enhanced Oracle PartnerNetwork Overview
We put you in the driver's seat: select the path, benefits, and incentives that are best for you.

Level 1
5 seats for advanced delivery and success training on Oracle's entire product portfolio
Enabler for dev/test environments

Level 2
100 seats for advanced delivery & success training on Oracle's entire product portfolio
125K partner credits for use on added benefits
Managed regional GTM collaboration

Level 3
500 seats for advanced delivery & success training on Oracle's entire product portfolio
750K partner credits for use on added benefits
Managed global GTM collaboration
Private offer listing
Included benefits across levels

Training and Enablement
Sales-readiness training
Foundational delivery & success training
Go-to-Market Collaboration
Foundational marketing resources & activities
Business & technical assessment funding for qualified opportunities
Sales assets
OCI pre-sales support
Joint account planning & selling
Oracle Marketplace listing
Technical Accelerators
Integration qualification
Success Support
Foundational success resources
+Earn Monetary Incentives or Partner Credits for More Benefits
Added benefits unlocked with partner credits

Training and Enablement
Advanced delivery & success training
Go-to-Market Collaboration
Advanced marketing resources & activities
Technical Accelerators
Dev/test environments
Integration validation
Solution architect & migration services
Success Support
Partner Success Manager
Partner Technical Account Manager
Want to learn more about the new program and how to join? Submit your interest
What do Oracle partners have to say about working with Oracle?
Together with Oracle, we're delivering the enterprise-grade generative AI solutions organizations need to drive new value and completely reimagine business functions and processes.
Lan Guan, Chief AI Officer, Accenture
Together with Oracle we are delivering increased value to our mutual customers, providing world-class solutions to support them in doing business with confidence.
Chris Carlstead, Head of Partnerships & Alliances, Thomson Reuters
Our collaboration with OCI demonstrates a partnership that extends beyond technology, highlighting their support and commitment to our project's goals.
Warren Wilbee, SVP of Global Product Development, Körber Supply Chain
Our partnership with Oracle goes beyond just utilizing the cloud solutions. It's a shared commitment for the customer success.
Rakesh Reddy, Regional Director, Cloud4C
Exceptional brands rely on Oracle partners to unlock endless possibilities
Discover how partners provide solutions and services to Oracle's customers.
You can still view details about the previous OPN Program
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/developer/
Content:
Oracle Developer Center
Resources for developers – Discover. Learn. Build.
Jump To:
Latest News
AI
Languages
Solutions
Technologies
Community and events
Resources


Join us at KubeCon, Europe
Celebrate open source and cloud native by learning from friendly Oracle experts. Come say hello at booth S200, April 1-4 in London, UK.
Find out More
about KubeCon, Europe

Slide 1
Artificial Intelligence
Explore Oracle AI for developers
Build AI solutions, fast
Use real-world scenarios.
See example code on GitHub repositories.
Get step-by-step instructions.
Visit the AI Solutions Hub
Grow with generative AI
Embed AI in cloud applications.
Refine LLMs with your own data.
Train smarter with NVIDIA GPUs.
See the GenAI documentation
Enjoy unmatched capabilities
Flex with JSON Relational Duality.
Generate faster, leaner code with Java and GraalVM.
Accelerate semantic search with AI Vector Search.
Explore AI Vector Search
Languages
See all languages
Featured solutions
Create a Chatbot with Unstructured Data
Learn how to build an AI chatbot with unstructured data using Oracle Database 23ai, OCI AI services, and RAG.
View solution
for Oracle Developer
Automate Invoice Processing with AI
Automate invoice extraction and simplify document processing in ERP systems using AI.
View solution
for Oracle Events
Low-code modular LLM app engine
Ingest live data into a RAG-based knowledge search engine store using an Oracle low-code modular LLM app engine.
View solution
for Oracle Cloud HCM
Simplify AI Integration in Java Projects
Integrate AI into Java with LangChain’s Java framework. Accelerate development with Oracle AI.
View solution
for Simplify AI Integration in Java Projects
Create a question and answer app using custom documents with HeatWave GenAI
Quickly answer domain-specific questions using HeatWave GenAI and Vector Store.
View solution
for HeatWave GenAI
Transform Database Management with AI
Discover how Oracle AI simplifies database provisioning, migration, patching, and troubleshooting with OCI
View solution
for Transform Database Management with AI
Technologies
See all technologies
AI and ML
Databases
DevOps
HeatWave
Low code
Open source
Community and events
Developer Coaching series
Developer Coaching is a webinar series designed for technologists, by technologists. Learn by doing, with live, interactive sessions showcasing real-world solutions.
Find out more
about developer coaching series
Oracle Developer Community
Share your questions and answers.
Join the conversation
Oracle ACE Program
Go that step further. Become an Oracle ACE.
Learn more
about Oracle ACE
See all developer events
Search for developer events in your region.
Explore upcoming events
Resources
Downloads
Documentation
Events
Technologies
Languages
Learn
Downloads
Documentation
Events
Technologies
Languages
Learn



Downloads
All software downloads are free, and most come with a Developer License that allows you to use full versions of the products at no charge while developing and prototyping your applications, or for strictly self-educational purposes.
All downloads
Fast-track to the following downloads:
All Java downloads
Database
Developer tools
Drivers & Utilities
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers
slide 1 of 4

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/corporate/security-practices/
Content:
Oracle Corporate Security Practices
Oracle’s security practices are multidimensional, encompassing how the company develops and manages enterprise systems, and cloud and on-premises products and services. Gain additional insights by exploring each of the topics below.
Visit the Oracle Trust Center.
Learn more
Corporate Security Practices
Learn how Oracle protects Oracle and customer data.
Oracle Software Security Assurance
Learn about Oracle’s secure development practices.
Oracle Cloud Security Practices
Learn how Oracle protects Oracle Cloud.
Additional Resources
Learn more via additional papers, links, and resources.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://search.oracle.com/events?q=&lang=english
Content:
Search Oracle Events
See All Partner Only Events
Browse By Format
On-Demand Event (22)
Virtual Event (23)
In-Person Event (63)
Type
Date
Locations
Industry
Products
Language
Filtered by:
Language:   English
Clear all
Show
10 items
20 items
50 items
100 items
1 - 10 of 108 results
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Smart Construction Forum – Gurgaon
Get a front row seat to the future of construction and engineering – join us for the Oracle Smart Construction Forum to learn about industry trends, our latest product updates, and best practices from real-world customer successes.
March 28, 2025 09:30 IST
|
New Delhi
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Stay Ahead with MySQL: Secure Your Data and Reputation
Arm yourself with solutions that go beyond compliance and deliver peace of mind. Join us at one of our exclusive in-person events to see what MySQL Enterprise can do for you.
April 1, 2025 16:00 AET
|
Melbourne
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle CloudWorld Tour Amsterdam
Experience the future of cloud and AI at this free one-day event. Learn from experts who build and use Oracle Cloud AI services, infrastructure, applications, databases, and developer tools to help solve complex business challenges.
April 1, 2025 09:30 CET
|
Amsterdam
|
Register
|
VIRTUAL EVENT
Oracle - Calculations in Fusion Data Intelligence (FDI)
Using custom calculations Fusion Data Intelligence (FDI) helps you answer specific business questions about your data and accelerate decision-making.
April 1, 2025 10:00 CST
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Construction and Engineering Forum - NZ Update - Auckland
Get a front row seat to the future of construction and engineering – join us for the Oracle Construction and Engineering Forum in New Zealand to learn about industry trends, our latest product updates, and real-world customer successes.
April 1, 2025 08:30 NST
|
Auckland
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Analytics for Breakfast at Oracle CloudWorld Amsterdam
Hear the latest on Fusion Data Intelligence (FDI) – The analytics platform pre-built for Oracle Cloud Applications. If you're interested in Analytics and Fusion Cloud Applications, this session is for you!
April 1, 2025 08:30 CET
|
Amsterdam
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Cloud Healthcare Forum
150-person event taking place in Austin Texas designed to bring together healthcare industry leaders who are Fusion apps users. 2.5 day event designed for learning and networking for our healthcare Fusion apps community.
April 1, 2025 - April 2, 2025
|
Austin
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Health Forum London
Oracle Health Forum brings together health and care experts from Europe to expand their knowledge of the latest Oracle Health products, exchange ideas, and share the successes.
April 1, 2025 - April 2, 2025
|
London
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle In Person Workshop: Building Apps with Large Language Models
In Person Workshop: Building Apps with Large Language Models - Practical approaches and techniques for building enterprise applications which leverage LLMs
April 1, 2025 09:30 AET
|
Adelaide
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Cloud Transformation Masterclass
A unique free masterclass that combines industry thought leadership, hands-on implementation experience, and collaborative problem solving to gain invaluable insights to aid with your business transformation.
April 2, 2025 09:30 GMT
|
London
|
Register
|
page
1
page
2
page
3
page
4
page
5
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
Country/Region
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: tel:18006330738
Content:
Search Oracle Events
See All Partner Only Events
Browse By Format
On-Demand Event (22)
Virtual Event (23)
In-Person Event (63)
Type
Date
Locations
Industry
Products
Language
Filtered by:
Language:   English
Clear all
Show
10 items
20 items
50 items
100 items
1 - 10 of 108 results
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Smart Construction Forum – Gurgaon
Get a front row seat to the future of construction and engineering – join us for the Oracle Smart Construction Forum to learn about industry trends, our latest product updates, and best practices from real-world customer successes.
March 28, 2025 09:30 IST
|
New Delhi
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Stay Ahead with MySQL: Secure Your Data and Reputation
Arm yourself with solutions that go beyond compliance and deliver peace of mind. Join us at one of our exclusive in-person events to see what MySQL Enterprise can do for you.
April 1, 2025 16:00 AET
|
Melbourne
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle CloudWorld Tour Amsterdam
Experience the future of cloud and AI at this free one-day event. Learn from experts who build and use Oracle Cloud AI services, infrastructure, applications, databases, and developer tools to help solve complex business challenges.
April 1, 2025 09:30 CET
|
Amsterdam
|
Register
|
VIRTUAL EVENT
Oracle - Calculations in Fusion Data Intelligence (FDI)
Using custom calculations Fusion Data Intelligence (FDI) helps you answer specific business questions about your data and accelerate decision-making.
April 1, 2025 10:00 CST
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Construction and Engineering Forum - NZ Update - Auckland
Get a front row seat to the future of construction and engineering – join us for the Oracle Construction and Engineering Forum in New Zealand to learn about industry trends, our latest product updates, and real-world customer successes.
April 1, 2025 08:30 NST
|
Auckland
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Analytics for Breakfast at Oracle CloudWorld Amsterdam
Hear the latest on Fusion Data Intelligence (FDI) – The analytics platform pre-built for Oracle Cloud Applications. If you're interested in Analytics and Fusion Cloud Applications, this session is for you!
April 1, 2025 08:30 CET
|
Amsterdam
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Cloud Healthcare Forum
150-person event taking place in Austin Texas designed to bring together healthcare industry leaders who are Fusion apps users. 2.5 day event designed for learning and networking for our healthcare Fusion apps community.
April 1, 2025 - April 2, 2025
|
Austin
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Health Forum London
Oracle Health Forum brings together health and care experts from Europe to expand their knowledge of the latest Oracle Health products, exchange ideas, and share the successes.
April 1, 2025 - April 2, 2025
|
London
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle In Person Workshop: Building Apps with Large Language Models
In Person Workshop: Building Apps with Large Language Models - Practical approaches and techniques for building enterprise applications which leverage LLMs
April 1, 2025 09:30 AET
|
Adelaide
|
Register
|
IN-PERSON EVENT
Oracle Cloud Transformation Masterclass
A unique free masterclass that combines industry thought leadership, hands-on implementation experience, and collaborative problem solving to gain invaluable insights to aid with your business transformation.
April 2, 2025 09:30 GMT
|
London
|
Register
|
page
1
page
2
page
3
page
4
page
5
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
Country/Region
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/cloudworld-tour/
Content:
Oracle CloudWorld Tour
Register now for Oracle CloudWorld Tour 2025!
Join us in person for complimentary one-day events that bring innovations, ideas, and inspiration to 21 cities around the world. As the tour continues, registration is now open for all remaining cities. We hope to see you at a CloudWorld Tour near you!
1/4
Coming to a city near you
Oracle CloudWorld Tour is where you will discover how to get the most business value from AI, see the latest cloud technology innovations, and explore ways to increase productivity and efficiency through automation. You’ll learn from experts who build and use the Oracle AI services, cloud infrastructure, applications, databases, and developer tools that help solve complex business challenges in every industry.
Join us at a city near you to connect with partners and peers, and get inspired by leaders from Oracle and local innovative companies.
Meet us in these cities
Americas
Bogotá
April 1, 2025
Ágora Bogotá Convention Center
Request to attend Bogotá
Ciudad de México
April 9, 2025
Expo Santa Fe México
Request to attend Ciudad de México
Miami
May 1, 2025
Mandarin Oriental
Request to attend Miami
New York City
May 6, 2025
Hilton Midtown
Request to attend New York City
São Paulo
March 25, 2025
Event concluded.
Watch on demand
Austin
January 30, 2025
Event concluded.
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Amsterdam
April 1, 2025
RAI Amsterdam Convention Centre
Learn more about Amsterdam
Stockholm
April 3, 2025
Hilton Stockholm Slussen
Learn more about Stockholm
Munich
April 8, 2025
Munich Marriott Hotel City West
Learn more about Munich
Frankfurt
April 10, 2025
Messe Frankfurt Congress Center
Register for Frankfurt
Riyadh
January 19, 2025
Event concluded.
Dubai
January 22, 2025
Event concluded.
Madrid
March 12, 2025
Event concluded.
Paris
March 13, 2025
Event concluded.
Milan
March 18, 2025
Event concluded.
London
March 20, 2025
Event concluded.
Watch on demand
Zurich
March 27, 2025
Event concluded.
Japan and Asia Pacific
Mumbai
February 6, 2025
Event concluded.
Tokyo
February 13, 2025
Event concluded.
Singapore
March 13, 2025
Event concluded.
Sydney
March 18, 2025
Event concluded.
See highlights from 2025
Experience the energy and excitement of CloudWorld Tour cities we’ve visited so far!
Watch the videos
of CloudWorld Tour 2025 highlights
Thank you to our Global sponsors
Global Innovator
Global Accelerator
Join the conversation
Oracle CloudWorld on X
Oracle CloudWorld on Facebook
Oracle CloudWorld on LinkedIn
Oracle CloudWorld on YouTube
Oracle CloudWorld on Instagram
#ocw #cloudworld
© 2025 Oracle Privacy/Do Not Sell My Info Cookie Preferences Ad Choices

================================================================================

Page: https://academy.oracle.com/en/oa-web-overview.html
Content:
Click to view our Accessibility Policy
Oracle Academy
Menu
Type 2 or more characters for results.
  Previous
Next
1
2
3
4
5
Select Your Role
Oracle Academy works with institutions, educators, and partners across the globe to help millions of students become technology innovators and leaders.
© 2025, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Site Map
Contact Us
Member Agreement
Terms of Use
Privacy
Accessibility
Cookie Preferences
About Oracle

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/careers/diversity-inclusion/
Content:
Overview
Life at Oracle
Culture and Inclusion
Work We Do
Career Opportunities
Students and Graduates
Culture and inclusion—be yourself here
Our culture of inclusion inspires ideas and ensures that everyone’s voice is heard. Leveraging all perspectives makes our teams stronger and empowers collaboration. This makes Oracle a place where everyone can do their best work without barriers. Because when everyone is included, we open the way to acceptance, belonging, and opportunities for all.
Search for jobs
Investing in our employee communities
Belonging at Oracle
Ethnic and Racial Communities
Diverse Abilities
Generations of Leaders
LGBTQ+ Inclusion
Military Community
Women at Oracle
Belonging at Oracle
Ethnic and Racial Communities
Diverse Abilities
Generations of Leaders
LGBTQ+ Inclusion
Military Community
Women at Oracle
Belonging at Oracle
Be part of something bigger and help everyone feel like they belong. Our employee resource groups (ERGs) bring together people who share common interests, backgrounds, or life experiences while building strong relations across communities through cross collaborations. They connect us, empower us, and help us enact change.
Hear from some of our ERG members now (1:12)
Nurturing inclusive leadership
Unlocking endless possibilities for all takes a commitment to inclusive leadership. We build inclusion into our talent development practices, invest in underrepresented talent, and partner with leading organizations to attract and empower diverse perspectives.
Our commitment to inclusive hiring
We believe in treating all employees and applicants for employment fairly and with dignity. We base our employment decisions on merit, experience, and potential, without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, religion, disability, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic prohibited by federal, state, or local law.
Equal opportunities policy
Our people set us apart
Kay, Senior Product Director
“Technology needs women. It needs the diversity of our ideas, the diversity of the way we think and solve complex problems, the diversity of the way we communicate.” Learn how Kay is upgrading what it means to be a technologist.
Read Kay's story
Scott, Senior Site Reliability Manager
"The camaraderie I feel with my team and our organization parallels that which I felt in the military." Learn about Scott's role with Oracle National Security Regions and how he is helping fellow veterans pivot from military to corporate life.
Read Scott's story
Isabella, Business Development Consultant
“Whenever I feel that imposter syndrome creeping up, I remember the sacrifices that were made for me to feel like I belong wherever I am.” Learn how Oracle is helping empower diverse leaders like Isabella.
Read Isabella's story
Kevin, Principal Risk Manager
"I make it my responsibility to champion LGBTQ+ issues." Learn how Kevin helps ensure everyone can show up as their true and authentic selves
Read Kevin's story

Apply today
Explore open roles and find the future of your career.
Search jobs
at Oracle

Oracle Talent Network
Get career insights and job opportunities.
Join our network
at Oracle
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Youtube
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/careers/
Content:
Overview
Life at Oracle
Culture and Inclusion
Work We Do
Career Opportunities
Students and Graduates
ORACLE CAREERS
Create the future with us
Realize your potential and empower others to realize theirs as part of a company that’s innovating solutions to global challenges that affect billions of lives.
Search jobs
at Oracle
Transform the world for the better
Drive meaningful change, work with innovative people, and shape the technologies that are making the world a better place with the cloud leader for global business.

Search for jobs
Grow as a person and a professional
Jumpstart your future
Student or recent graduate—we have programs to help you build your skills and launch your career ready to succeed.
Learn more
about jumpstarting your future
Fuel your career
Explore self-directed training, mentoring, and on-the-job learning. Have a goal? We’ll help you reach it. Need direction? Let’s make a plan.
Learn more
about growing your career
Embrace inclusion
Oracle’s culture of inclusion empowers ideas and makes diverse voices heard on our journey to acceptance and opportunities for all.
Learn more
about innovation and inclusion
Live well, do good
From flexible benefits to work-life balance, our people are free to find their own way, bring their best selves to work, and impact the world with their ideas.
Learn more
about living well
Featured opportunities
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
Innovate as part our intrepid team of engineers and help us build a new class of cloud.
Apply now
about Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
Oracle NetSuite
Transform your career and the way the world does business by helping us deliver the #1 cloud business solution.
Apply now
about Oracle NetSuite
Applications Consulting
Collaborate with companies to take on change and share your unique insights with our high-performing team.
Apply now
about applications consulting
Security Clearance Jobs
Lead the way to a more secure, scalable cloud for our customers and our country with people who are passionate about safeguarding the future.
Apply now
about Security Clearance Jobs
A place you’ll love to work
We’re proud to be a company that makes diversity and inclusion a priority. We listen closely to what you have to say—and we think that’s what makes us an employer of choice.

The Best Employers for Diversity
Forbes | 2024

The Best Employers for Women
Forbes | 2023

5 Star Employer
VETS Indexes | 2024

Human Rights Campaign Foundation
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality | 2023 - 2024

World's Most Attractive Employers
Universum | 2023

Disability Equality Index
Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion | 2024
Career Blogs
Read more blogs
Katty celebrates Latinx leadership
Senior Latina leader, Katty Coulson shares how mindset, community, and representation fuel her success.
Read Katty’s story
Security research is shaping the future
Huseyn has always loved sharing knowledge and solving puzzles. Learn how he’s creating the future on our new cybersecurity team.
Read Huseyn’s story
Creating connections: How OCI’s Engineering Community inspires career growth
Colin Torretta joined Oracle Cloud Infrastructure when it was a small internal start-up. He shares how the OCI Engineering Community grew and inspired his own career along the way.
Read Colin’s story

Apply today
Explore open roles and find the future of your career.
Search jobs
at Oracle

Oracle Talent Network
Get career insights and job opportunities.
Join our network
at Oracle
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Youtube
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/research/
Content:
Overview
Products
Podcast
News
Blog
Resources
Customer Stories
Research
We offer purpose-built products, capabilities, and resources to simplify the research process, accelerate discovery, and address humanity’s most urgent needs.
Contact us to get started
Oracle products for researchers
Our products are designed to make research easier, faster, and more accurate. We want to empower researchers with the most-advanced technologies so they can unlock new insights and make discoveries that change the world.
All research
Artificial Intelligence
Compute
Data analysis
Database services
Storage
Clinical research
Clinical One
Real-world data
Argus
Empirica
ClearTrial
Safety One Intake
Study startup solutions
AI for research
Oracle AI is a family of accelerated infrastructure, artificial intelligence, and machine learning (ML) services. For AI training and inferencing, Oracle’s AI infrastructure offers ultralow latencies for standalone graphics processing units (GPUs) and clusters with thousands of nodes. Using AI services, developers can add prebuilt models to applications and operations. With ML services, data scientists can build, train, and deploy models with their favorite open source frameworks or benefit from the speed of in-database machine learning.
Research AI services
Anomaly detection service
Data labeling
Data science
Digital assistant
Forecasting
Language
Machine learning services
Speech
Virtual machines for data science
Vision
Explore AI






Customer success stories
Explore more customer stories
Our world-class researchers are helping make the world a better place
Hear more from our research customers to learn why Oracle was the right choice for their projects, and why we'll be the right partner for yours too.
“Without the Oracle compute resources, the research that we're carrying out could have taken months to years to complete. With Oracle behind us, we got access to a large number of GPU compute nodes, so we could complete the research in a matter of only weeks.”
Rommie Amaro PhD
Professor and Endowed Chair, Chemistry and Biochemistry, UC San Diego
Partnering to protect the future
University of Oxford and Oracle teamed to create the Global Pathogen Analysis System (GPAS), which uses a global common standard for analyzing viruses and processing pathogen data in just minutes. Powered by Oracle Cloud, the system helps governments, medical communities, and public health leaders access accurate and comparable information about the spread and evolution of infectious diseases, such as COVID-19, much faster to manage their spread and make better policy decisions.
Oracle products for research institutes
Infrastructure solutions
Grants management
Human capital management (HCM)
Enterprise resource planning (ERP)
Infrastructure solutions
Grants management
Human capital management (HCM)
Enterprise resource planning (ERP)
We partner closely with research institutions to drive successful outcomes for research projects
We work to build, integrate, deploy, secure, analyze, and collaborate across applications and data. We’re here to help you build a system that will fully support your team and your stakeholders—from the moment they apply for grants to when their papers publish, and beyond.
Discover cloud solutions for government and education
Get started with Oracle's research solutions

Oracle Cloud training and labs
Learn a wide range of Oracle technologies through tutorials and hands-on labs.
See all tutorials and labs

How-to: Oracle Cloud migration
Learn how to migrate your research data to Oracle Cloud.
Read the blog

Research documentation
Explore how-tos, navigate walk-throughs, and gain firsthand experience with Oracle technologies.
Visit the Help Center

Contact us
Interested in learning more about Oracle solutions for research?
Get in touch
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/#
Content:
  This site is experiencing technical difficulty. We are aware of the issue and are working as quickly as possible to correct the issue.

We apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused.

To speak with an Oracle sales representative: 1.800.ORACLE1.

To contact Oracle Corporate Headquarters from anywhere in the world: 1.650.506.7000.

To get technical support in the United States: 1.800.633.0738.


Incident Number: 0.ab8cd017.1743144037.9b43d2c

 

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-agents/
Content:
Cloud Artificial Intelligence
What Are AI Agents?
Art Wittman | Content Director | December 12, 2024
If you’re someone who finds AI fascinating but nebulous, you’ll be intrigued by AI agents. Those large language models (LLMs) that companies have invested billions in? They’re getting real jobs as the brains behind AI agents: What if chatbots could understand your HR policies and have nuanced discussions with employees about them? What if a fraud detection system could act autonomously to shut down bad transactions as they’re happening? What if you could give an AI system a goal and it would autonomously do what it took to achieve it?
All these use cases are possible with AI agents.
You can even equip agents with tools—algorithms, sensory inputs, data sources, and even access to other agents—so they can perform complex tasks under their own steam. Think of a warehouse robot that navigates aisles to check inventory by combining information from a range of sensors, cameras, and scanners with its control software and an ERP inventory management system.
What’s being called “agentic AI” is coalescing as an exciting opportunity for all sorts of organizations by making AI easy to use and vastly more helpful.
What Is AI?
AI, or artificial intelligence, refers to computing systems that are trained to simulate human intelligence. Most AI systems are programmed to learn, and some can improve their performance based on experiences and new data, solve problems using a wide range of inputs, and pursue goals and objectives in a methodical manner. In the most recent advancement, generative AI systems can make decisions and initiate actions independently to reach their goals. GenAI is used in applications as varied as self-driving cars, media recommendation engines, and tools such as DALL-E and Midjourney that create images based on textual prompts.
Enterprise AI refers to ongoing work to apply GenAI and related technologies to business workloads, with systems augmented with the organization’s data. Think customer service, personalized marketing, and HR and finance assistants.
What Are AI Agents?
AI agents are software entities that can be assigned tasks, examine their environments, take actions as prescribed by their roles, and adjust based on their experiences.
People give AI agents objectives based on the agent’s role and the organization’s needs. With its objective in hand, the agent may make plans, perform task, and pursue the goal based on its training, the application in which it’s embedded, and the wider environment in which it operates. Agents learn and iterate and may take on specific roles, connect with data sources, and make decisions on their own. Advanced agents have specialized jobs that may involve executing multistep processes that require judgment, communicate in a way that mimics human interactions, and often cooperate with other agents. The modular nature of agents enables complex workflows. The autonomy given to agents is determined by the humans who invoke them. Just as in hiring a new assistant, more autonomy may be given as proficiency is proven.
Agents work by combining natural language processing, machine learning capabilities, an ability to gather data by querying other tools and systems, and continuous learning to respond to questions and perform tasks. A good example is a customer service AI agent. When a customer inquiring about an order asks, “Where’s my stuff?” the agent forms its response by checking with the order processing system, querying the shipping carrier’s tracking system via an API, and gathering information on potential weather or other external factors that could delay delivery.
The term agentic AI refers to systems that actively pursue goals and objectives versus performing a simple task or responding to a query. Agentic systems can often initiate actions, such as a customer service AI proactively sending a query to a carrier to ask about shipping delays.
One way to make agents more useful is by incorporating retrieval-augmented generation, or RAG, a technique that lets large language models use external data sources specific to the organization or agent role. RAG allows agents to find and incorporate up-to-date and relevant information from external databases, enterprise systems such as an ERP, or documents into their responses, making them more informative, accurate, and relevant for the audience. For example, an IT support agent could consider past interactions with customers before it decides how best to address the issue at hand. It might include in its response links to helpful documentation or decide to open a ticket on the customer’s behalf if the issue needs to be escalated.
Key Takeaways
AI agents are proactive planners: They work to identify the steps needed to achieve the desired goal.
As with any AI technology, AI agents can deliver benefits commensurate with their training and the data they can draw on and the limits humans set for their operation.
Goals that are clearly defined, achievable, measurable, and quantifiable are essential for AI agent success.
The steps to implement an agent are similar to any AI deployment and begin with clearly defining the task parameters.
AI Agents Explained
An AI agent is a software entity that can perceive its environment, take actions, and learn from its experiences. Think of it as a digital assistant or a robot that can perform tasks autonomously based on human direction. AI agents have distinguishing characteristics, notably the ability to set goals, gather information, and use logic to plan out steps to achieve their objectives. Because they’re underpinned by LLMs that provide the intelligence to understand the intent behind queries, AI agents aren’t dependent on keywords, scripts, or preconfigured semantics. Rather, they can draw on data retained from previous tasks, combined with chat-based prompts, to dynamically come up with solutions.
AI agents also learn by trial and error. Reinforcement learning is where an AI model refines its decision-making process based on positive, neutral, and negative responses. They mimic human ingenuity and can use tools, including cloud-based and enterprise applications and data sources, APIs, and other agents, to achieve their goals. They may also use additional AI- and machine learning-based systems to analyze complex data, natural language processing tools to process inputs, RAG to provide up-to-date and contextually appropriate content, and cloud services for the computational resources required to do their work.
How Do AI Agents Work?
AI agents work by combining techniques and technologies, such as those we just noted, to achieve their assigned goals. For example, a recommendation agent might use machine learning, tapping massive data sets to identify patterns; natural language processing to understand requests and communicate with users; and interfaces to enterprise tools, such as an ERP system, database, or Internet of Things sensors, or external data sources, including the internet, to gather information.
AI agents are planners. They can identify the tasks and steps needed to achieve the assigned goal. For our customer service agent, understanding where a given shipment is requires a series of actions. It would first access databases with information about the specific order, such as the shipment ID, delivery method, and date placed. Next, it would use that data to query the shipping carrier’s database using a web services interface to provide real-time tracking and an estimated delivery date. The agent could also look at where the shipment currently is and how long it has taken in the past to make the next leg of its journey. If it’s in an air freight terminal in Boston and a hurricane is moving up the East Coast, the agent might infer that a delay is likely and convey that information to the customer.
AI agents gain autonomy by collecting information, taking action and learning from that action, and making adjustments based on feedback.
As with new employees, agents don’t start out with total autonomy—they earn it over time as they gain and prove proficiency and understanding. The process generally looks like this.
Benefits of AI Agents
AI agents, like any AI technology, can deliver benefits commensurate with their training and the data they have to draw on. A feature that separates agents from their more static predecessors is that they can recognize when they don’t have enough data to make a high-quality decision and take action to get more or better data. The formulation of agents within applications is a highly applied version of AI. As such, organizations will find that for success with agents, AI gurus aren’t needed so much as those who understand business processes and, possibly, data quality experts. These specialists can help define agent objectives, set parameters, and assess whether business goals are met, calling in IT or the software vendor only if they believe the AI itself is malfunctioning.
Specific benefits cited by early adopters of AI agents include
24/7 availability. AI agents can operate continuously, without downtime. And when delivered from the cloud, agents can operate anywhere that customers, employees, or other intended users might be.
Accuracy. AI agents can minimize human error when performing repetitive tasks, and the vast amounts of data they can draw on lead to more accurate and well-informed decisions. Of course, that’s predicated on them having access to accurate, up-to-date, and complete data sources. Unlike first-generation GenAI tools, agents can better recognize when they don’t have enough information to make a quality decision and seek more data as needed.
Consistency. AI agents can be made to follow prescriptive processes and procedures, helping ensure tasks are performed the same way every time. Agents can also minimize variations stemming from human fatigue or differences in how various employees might execute a process.
Cost savings. While AI agents may reduce operational costs by automating repetitive tasks once performed by humans, they can also discover and suggest ways to optimize processes while reducing errors that can cost the company money.
Data analysis. AI agents can process and interpret massive data sets for analysis activities, including long-range planning, fraud detection, and predictive maintenance to head off equipment failures. In cases where the agent can’t analyze data for whatever reason, it can invoke other tools to do the job.
Efficiency. AI agents can automate tasks and processes, freeing up human employees to focus on more complex and strategic activities. And they don’t require vacations.
Personalization. With AI-powered marketing campaigns created by agents, companies can effectively target specific customer segments, often resulting in higher conversion rates and lower marketing costs. On a macro level, personalization is a trend for a reason—many consumers like when companies remember and use their buying histories, preferences, and personal information.
Scalability. While scaling up the use of AI agents can take time, it can be easier and less costly than adding new human resources. Expand the role of agents at a deliberate pace, assessing the quality of work with each new task given to them. Consider the data and other resources available to an agent and whether they’re sufficient to achieve a new goal. And don’t forget training: Employees need to be educated on how to get the most out of the agents they’ll use.
Challenges of AI Agents
AI agents can be challenging to develop and put into production primarily because they rely on complex models, powerful compute infrastructure, and vast amounts of data that must be curated and kept up-to-date. Moreover, IT talent oversight is required to confirm that agents can effectively interact with humans and adapt to unexpected situations, and business and data experts need to help with setup. Make sure you have expertise in natural language processing and machine learning and watch for these problems.
Adaptability. Although agents are designed to learn and improve over time, they encounter challenges when faced with a rapidly changing environment or unexpected requests or outcomes. A common culprit is overfitting, a common AI training challenge where models become too attuned to the data they were trained on, making it difficult to incorporate new data. Agents are therefore limited in their scope. The notion that it’s never a good idea to ask a brain surgeon to do plumbing applies to agents as well.
Complexity. While AI agents that focus on specific, fairly rote tasks may be relatively simple to use, as the assigned tasks get more sophisticated and demand a wide range of functions, agents may become difficult to design, implement, and maintain. As with any new endeavor, adopting agents is best accomplished with small, incremental steps.
Dependence on data. Like all AI, agents require high-quality data to perform well. AI agents that are integrated with other systems, such as human capital management or ERP, have an edge since these systems inherently accumulate high-quality data, but they may need to be tuned to handle interactions and data exchange. Organizations need to make sure the data sources that agents draw from are accurate, timely, and available.
Interpretability. First-generation GenAI systems operated as “black boxes,” making their output hard to parse. Agents are designed to better explain how decisions are made and which data was considered in making the decision. Starting with simple tasks and moving on to more complicated jobs only when the basics have been mastered can help business pros understand how the agent is doing its work. Further, when agents get it wrong, they can learn from corrections made by business experts. Those interactions contribute to a better understanding of how they do their work.
Resource-intensive operations. Like all AI, agents demand significant computational power and storage. When agents are part of applications delivered from the cloud, it’s up to the provider to resource systems appropriately and deliver adequate performance. On-premises applications will need IT to ensure sufficient resources.
Security risks. To provide the service that business professionals need, agents must access company-proprietary information. Further, because agents can remember at least the outcomes of transactions, it’s important to help ensure agents don’t provide undesired access to sensitive data. Since most agents will be delivered within business applications, it’s important to establish and maintain controls to prevent them from leaking proprietary data. Still, agents represent a new avenue of attack for bad actors and a new skill set for enterprise security teams, which need to continually assess whether data loss is possible.
Components of AI Agents
AI agents depend on a range of inputs to do their work, with the specific mix depending on agent type and use case. A customer support agent will converse with customers, consult their purchase and support histories, and access support libraries to answer questions. Some agents will interact only with other agents. A database query agent might create SQL queries to retrieve information requested by other agents. Agents functioning as virtual assistants measure success by how well they accomplish tasks, often based on human feedback. All require a unique mix of components.
Action. Actuators or interfaces enable agents to interact with their environments. Actions might be physical, such as turning a knob, piloting a self-driving vehicle, or controlling a robotic arm; cognitive, perhaps deciding between several options for an opening gambit or creating a list of possible ways to achieve checkmate; or communicative, including composing an email, transcribing audio, or asking and answering questions.
Goals/utility. Goals and utility are related. Goals define the desired outcome for the agent, such as an HR assistant successfully crafting a job description with input from a recruiter and hiring manager. Utility measures how well the agent achieves its goals and may be represented by a numerical value. A gaming agent will measure utility by matches won, while an autonomous vehicle’s utility is largely based on its safety record and rider scores.
Learning. AI agents can improve their results by incorporating lessons from tasks accomplished. An LLM’s learning stops when its training stops, but by observing which combinations of proprietary data and questions produce the best results, an agent can become better at tasks over time. Agents may also acquire new knowledge from additional training, whether supervised, unsupervised, or reinforcement learning. The recruiter might rate the agent on the job description it produced, adding to its utility score; the agent then uses that data to guide future writing.
Memory. This refers to the agent’s ability to store information from past experiences and retrieve and use it to make more-informed decisions and adapt to changing circumstances. Memory is essential for AI agents to improve their performance over time.
Perception. AI agents may use sensors or other mechanisms to gather and perceive information from their environments. Think about a camera to recognize objects and detect patterns or a microphone to capture and process spoken queries. Agents may also use sensors to help manipulate objects or navigate their own positions in the physical world.
Reasoning. Logical decision-making based on data, rules, probability, and learned patterns is fundamental for an AI agent. Reasoning is what enables an agent to identify multiple different options and decide on the optimal course of action based on available information and outcome criteria.
Types of AI Agents
Simple reflex agents. These agents operate based on a set of condition/action rules and react to inputs without considering the broader context or history. An example is a basic chatbot programmed to respond to predefined keywords or phrases, without understanding the context or engaging in an expansive conversation.
Model-based reflex agents. These agents have internal models of the environment relevant to their functions, allowing them to consider the current situation and the effects of various actions before deciding what to do. Self-driving cars are a good example. Their “world” is the immediate roadway around them. They need to track the movements of things within their world and make decisions about how fast they can travel and whether they need to brake or take evasive action when objects move toward them.
Goal-based agents. These agents build on the capabilities of reflex agents by considering long-term objectives and planning their actions accordingly. They have a more sophisticated decision-making process than reflex agents. For example, a chess or go agent needs to look several moves ahead and have a strategy to win, which may include making sacrifices in the short run.
Utility-based agents. These agents make decisions based on maximizing desired utility—that is, the measure of how successfully the AI agent achieves its goals over time. This means they choose actions more strategically, selecting those most likely to lead to positive outcomes or minimize negative ones in the longer term. They aim to maximize satisfaction or benefits even when faced with competing goals by striking a balance. Where a goal-based agent might seek to win a game, a utility-based agent will try to continuously optimize for an ongoing objective, like minimizing energy use or maximizing sales of a high-margin product.
Learning agents. These agents hone their performance over time by ingesting new data and refining responses based on interactions with users. Recommendation engines are learning agents. Accuracy improves over time, whether the agent is suggesting movies and TV shows, music, or items a consumer may wish to purchase.

Characteristics of Agentic AI include proactive and goal-oriented behavior as well as adaptation and autonomy.
Agentic AI refers to artificial intelligence that’s capable of understanding and responding to information as well as actively pursuing objectives.
AI Agent Use Cases
Ideal AI agent use cases generally have related data and other systems, such as a CRM or ERP, that AI agents rely on. They’re also task-oriented: Think answering a customer question or driving a passenger from point A to point B. Look for jobs that take advantage of agents’ ability to improve their performance over time and to make decisions based on their understanding of their environments and assigned goals.
Current popular use cases include
Autonomous vehicles. Self-driving cars navigate and make decisions based on their surroundings.
Content recommendation. Suggestions on platforms like Netflix or YouTube can increase the engagement through personalized content.
Customer support. Automated chatbots for answering customer inquiries that can go beyond pre-formed answers are key to customer satisfaction.
Finance. Agents used by financial services firms include automated trading systems and fraud detection.
Gaming. One example is agents that act as NPCs, or non-player characters, with adaptive behavior that can help video game developers focus more on primary plotlines.
Healthcare. AI agents that help diagnose certain medical conditions or help manage patient care are trained with (usually anonymized) patient records and medical images that teach them to identify patterns so they can predict outcomes and risk factors and suggest possible courses of action.
Personal assistants. Virtual assistants, such as Siri or Google Assistant, are examples of agents that learn via customer interactions.
Retail. The options in retail are nearly endless. As one example, Neostar offers a platform for buying, selling, and servicing used cars. It uses an agent to power individualized communications to customers, with recommended product listings to highlight vehicle suggestions in email messages that reengage customers and drive them back to Neostar’s website.
Robotics. AI-driven robots can be controlled by agents that perceive their environments, make decisions, and take actions. Robots used in manufacturing and assembly lines, for example, often rely on AI agents to perform tasks that include picking, packing, and quality control.
Smart homes. Managing home automation systems and answering verbal questions are popular jobs for agents, as are powering security cameras, doorbells, and alarms that use AI to detect and respond to potential threats.
Supply chain management. Optimizing logistics might include using agents to analyze inventory data to identify slow-moving items and detect changes in demand patterns and adjust inventory levels accordingly, that can reduce holding costs.
6 AI Agent Best Practices
As with any technology investment, you want AI agents to cost-effectively deliver the desired functionality, now and in the future. For agents embedded within applications, best practices are similar to those you’d use for a new employee, such as carefully monitoring early outputs and ramping up the complexity of work as the employee progresses with assigned tasks.
For organizations looking to create their own agents suited to their unique needs, the process is more involved. Consider these six requirements and recommendations to address them.
Establish clear objectives. Clearly defined, achievable, measurable, and quantified goals are essential for AI agents. As with a human employee, if the agent doesn’t understand expectations, it’s unlikely to meet them. Keys to success include keeping objectives well-defined and specific. Avoid vague or ambiguous goals, aiming instead for objectives that are achievable given the AI agent’s capabilities and resources. Define KPIs to measure success and use that data to improve the model.
Continuous learning. Continuously fine-tuning an LLM at the heart of an agent isn’t practical, but refining the data it uses to make decisions and complete tasks is. For agents embedded in applications, it will be up to a vendor to decide when it’s time to refine the training of the LLMs powering its systems. It’ll also be up to the vendor to refine how interactions with the agent are stored and recalled for facilitating the agent’s memory of past work.

In bespoke agents, refining memory techniques and the data and other inputs supplied can happen more frequently than fine-tuning of the LLMs themselves. For those building their own agents, these processes will need to be worked out before the agent is ready for use and likely tweaked to optimize the agent’s operation.
Documentation. Documentation is essential for understanding, maintaining, and improving AI agents. There are at least two main types of documentation to consider:
Technical documents might include diagrams of the AI agent’s components, data flow, and decision-making processes along with records of any new code required for the AI agent’s functionality; the algorithms and models used; and the data to operate the AI agent.
Operational documentation includes manuals for users on how to interact with the AI agent; guidelines for IT to maintain the AI agent, including troubleshooting; and instructions for integrating agents with the data sources they need to function.
In addition, track and share the KPIs you’re using to measure the AI agent’s performance, and graph results over time.
Human oversight. Just like a new employee, agents will need time to learn about your organization and its practices. You’ll also want to go slow in terms of giving agents tasks and monitoring the outcomes. Provide extensive oversight until team members are confident the agent can work autonomously. Assign oversight roles to individuals or teams, operating under a governance structure, and make sure your human in the loop system allows for intervention and that the agent incorporates and prioritizes human feedback.
Robust testing. Thoroughly vet the agent in diverse scenarios, both prior to and after deployment, and focus on validation testing to gauge performance against benchmarks or real-world process outcomes. Test all the components of the agent individually and then watch how they interact, to the extent possible. Also make sure the agent is drawing data from relevant external systems, such as an ERP or database, without bottlenecks. Finally, do UX testing with actual users of the system.
Security measures. Protect the agent from unauthorized access and attacks by encrypting and, where appropriate, anonymizing data used by the agent. Robust access controls are also critical. Your network and infrastructure security, secure coding, monitoring and incident response, and assurance practices should extend to your AI systems.
Your AI center of excellence should play a pivotal role in overseeing and managing the rollout of AI agents. Don’t have one? Here’s how to get one up and running now.
Access the ebook
Implementing AI Agents
The steps to implement an agent are similar to any AI deployment. First, you’ll define the task: What do you want the agent to do, being as specific as possible with goals and objectives. Then, identify the functional process the agent will follow, the data it’ll need to access, the relevant business experts, and the tools and other agents it can access as part of its work.
It is often best to start by assigning a small beta test group, closely monitoring use and outcomes, tuning the agent based on results, and increasing autonomy based on proven success. Where applicable, you might model the process on provisioning a new employee. Let’s consider a demand forecasting agent coming online to help a retailer plan for the back-to-school season.
Have a defined job description. The AI agent is expected to forecast demand for products, including backpacks, notebooks, and children’s apparel.
Decide what data is required. Curate data sources to set your agent up for success. The demand forecaster will need, at minimum, past sales figures for the products being forecasted; information about current market trends and economic indicators; and customer demographics and purchase histories. Adding data on seasonal patterns that may affect demand, like expected higher than normal temperatures, and historical details on successful promotions, discounts, and marketing activities is likely to help increase accuracy.
Introduce helpers. Integrating the AI agent with other systems, such as inventory management, your ERP, and supply chain planning tools, will help enhance its effectiveness. You’ll also want to identify human experts in the relevant product lines who can provide valuable insights and help the AI agent make more accurate predictions.
Provide feedback. Regular evaluation and tuning is an upfront time investment that often proves worthwhile. Gather feedback from customers and your experts to identify areas for improvement, and work with the software provider to adjust as needed.
One note: You should have sufficient computational resources to run the AI agent—laggy performance will kill enthusiasm before the project gets off the ground.
AI Agent Examples
These are just some of the AI agents currently available. Organizations should look at their pain points: What roles are you having trouble filling? What are some opportunities you’ve identified but lack the resources to test out your hypothesis? Is there a persistent employee or customer complaint that might be addressed by AI? Also, talk to your cloud and enterprise application providers to see what agents they’re baking into their products and services. Those roadmaps can spur ideas.
Examples of AI agents include
Conversational agents interact with the outside world. In the case of enterprise applications, interactions are usually with humans, but they could be with another software program. In industrial settings, for example, conversational agents may interact with manufacturing equipment or Internet of Things devices.
Functional agents, also called user-proxy agents, are associated with a particular organizational persona or role. Using a real-world example, you may encounter several “functional agents” when you go for your annual physical: The receptionist agent checks you in and the nurse agent takes basic vitals, such as your weight and blood pressure. Finally, you see the physician, the doctor who conducts a more detailed exam, assisted by an agent that summarizes the visit. Each of these agents performs specific subtasks with specific expertise using different tools, all communicating with one another as needed to accomplish a task.

Examples of functional agents include
Hiring manager agent. Performs tasks including documenting requirements—for example, candidate skills and experience—to help hiring managers post an opportunity.
Field service agent. Provides information to technicians, automates tasks such as scheduling, helps with diagnostics, and makes other decisions for more efficient field service workflows.
Receivables clerk agent. Streamlines payment processing; takes actions to improve cash flow, such as initiating dunning procedures; and produces reports on receivables performance.
Customer support agent. Augments customer support functions by providing relevant information to human support agents or customers.
Supervisory agents are the orchestra leaders. These agents direct other agents and drive the planning and reasoning needed to achieve an objective. One example is a user-proxy agent that makes decisions on whether to act on behalf of a human or connect with a person for human-in-the-loop feedback.
Utility agents, also called task-based agents, are usually associated with a specific function and are called on by other agents to perform a task, such as querying a database, sending an email, performing a calculation, or retrieving a document. Utility agents deployed as part of a complex workflow usually act autonomously because of their low-risk functionality. Examples include
Coding agent. Writes code to perform a specific task using languages like HTML, Java, or Python.
Conversational agent. Receives tasks from humans and communicates the results of workflow tasks in the manner best suited to the task’s requester.
Copy generating agent. Summarizes a body of text or generates sample text to use as a starting point for longer communications.
Database query agent. Performs tasks related to data retrieval, such as making SQL queries.
RAG agent. Coordinates the retrieval of specific, up-to-date data necessary for an LLM to make a proper response to a prompt or carry out a task.
Scheduler agent. Schedules meetings with stakeholders to advance a project.
Search agent. Determines the optimal type of search, for example, a web or document search, and calls the appropriate tool to perform the task.
Skills enrichment agent. Uses documentation to suggest the skills needed to complete tasks, such as creating a job posting or assisting an employee with profile creation.
Increase Efficiency with OCI Generative AI Agents
OCI Generative AI Agents combines the power of LLMs and RAG so that employees, partners, and customers can directly query diverse knowledge bases enriched with your enterprise data. Quickly create and embed custom AI agents in your enterprise business applications and processes.
The service provides up-to-date information through a natural language interface and the ability to act directly on it. Looking to try AI agent technology? OCI Generative AI RAG Agent—the first in a series of Oracle AI agents—is generally available.
Most of us have asked a chatbot a question and received a response that didn’t solve the problem. Ending that frustration is the ultimate goal of smart AI agents. Giving people contextually accurate and relevant information is good for them and for your organization.
AI Agents FAQs
What are the types of AI agents?
Types of AI agents include simple reflex, model-based reflex, goal-based, utility-based, and learning agents.
Simple reflex agents operate based on a set of condition/action rules and react to inputs without considering the broader context.
Model-based reflex agents have an internal model of the environment relevant to their function, allowing them to consider the current situation and the effects of various actions before deciding what to do.
Goal-based agents build on the capabilities of reflex agents by considering long-term objectives and planning their actions accordingly.
Utility-based agents are associated with a specific function and are called on by other agents to perform a task, such as querying a database, sending an email, performing a calculation, or retrieving a document.
Learning agents hone their performance over time by ingesting new data and refining responses based on interactions with users.
What are real-life examples of agents in AI?
Real-life early examples of AI agents are Alexa, Google Assistant, and Siri, virtual assistants that can perform tasks including setting alarms, sending messages, and searching for information. For businesses, Oracle Digital Assistant is a conversational AI platform that lets businesses create chatbots and virtual assistants for customer service and other applications—essentially an AI agent that helps companies create their own agents.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
What’s new
Contact us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://secure.ethicspoint.com/domain/media/en/gui/31053/index.html
Content:
Main Page
Codes of Conduct
Anti-Corruption Policy
Conflict of interest Policy
FAQs
LANGUAGE ▼
Report a Concern
Click here to report a suspected violation of Oracle's Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.
Ask a Question
Click here to ask an ethics-related question or request guidance or training on Oracle policies.
Follow Up
Click here to follow up on
your report or request.
Oracle is committed to promoting a corporate culture centered on integrity, accountability, and ethical business conduct. Oracle's Integrity Helpline, managed by an independent third party, provides the company's employees, business partners, customers, and other stakeholders around the globe a resource for asking questions or voicing concerns regarding compliance and ethics related matters.
Please utilize this website or call the Integrity Helpline, which allows for anonymous reporting, to request guidance or training with respect to Oracle policies, or report suspected violations of law, Oracle's Code of Ethics and Business Conduct or related policies. By keeping a record of your report key and password you can check the status of your inquiry or report and respond to any requests for additional information.
Oracle prohibits retaliation against any employee who raises a compliance issue or concern in good faith.
EthicsPoint is NOT a 911 or Emergency Service:
Do not use this site to report events presenting an immediate threat to life or property. Reports submitted through this service may not receive an immediate response. If you require emergency assistance, please contact your local authorities.
ATTENTION! This webpage is hosted on EthicsPoint's secure servers and is not part of the Oracle Corporation website or intranet.
Copyright © 2000-2025 NAVEX Global, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Statement | Acceptable Use Policy | Cookie Statement | Contact NAVEX

================================================================================

Page: https://investor.oracle.com/home/default.aspx
Content:
Skip to main content
Oracle Investor Relations
About Oracle
NYSE: ORCL
145.78
-2.02 (-1.37%)
Volume 9,144,770
Today's open $ 145.85
Previous close $ 147.80
March 27, 2025 4:00 PM. Pricing delayed 20 minutes.
Detailed chart view
Investor relations menu
Q3FY2025
Latest quarter
Earnings Release
(opens in new window)
Financial Tables
(opens in new window)
Customer Wins
(opens in new window)
Webcast
(opens in new window)
10-Q/K
Recent investor news
March 10, 2025
Oracle Announces Fiscal 2025 Third Quarter Financial Results
March 10, 2025
Clarification of Cloud Revenue Guidance for Fiscal 2025 Fourth Quarter
See all
Latest events
March 10, 2025 04:00 PM CT
Q3 FY25 Earnings
September 12, 2024 12:00 PM CT
Oracle Financial Analyst Meeting
See all
Learn how Oracle closes its books and reports earnings in less than 10 workdays
< 10 workdays
Oracle’s books closed and earnings reported, using Cloud ERP
54%
manual accounting eliminated to date across Oracle
97%
of bank account transactions automatically reconciled by Cloud ERP
25%
shorter time in preparation and review of management reports, using Cloud EPM
80%
Oracle’s transactions automated through Cloud CPQ
Learn more
Additional resources
Corporate
Oracle corporate facts
Dividends and splits
Social impact
Strategic acquisitions
Governance
Corporate governance
Board of directors
Annual meeting of stockholders
Contact Investor Relations
Receive email alerts
Press releases
Events and presentations
SEC filings
End of day stock quote
Sign up
Unsubscribe
Contact information
+1.512.501.7078
investor_us@oracle.com
© 2025 Oracle
Site Map
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Powered By Q4 Inc. 5.149.1.1
(opens in new window)

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/legal/privacy/privacy-choices/
Content:
Oracle Legal
Privacy Choices
Privacy Policies
Terms of Use
Copyright
Trademarks
Logos
EEO / Pay Transparency
More
Preference, Opt-Out and EU/EEA Subject Access Mechanisms
Please review the Oracle privacy policies for information specific to your relationship with Oracle. Below, Oracle summarizes the opt-out mechanisms found in our privacy policies. If you have a question or concern with regard to any of these mechanisms, please fill out our inquiry form.
Pursuant to the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and other applicable laws and regulations, individuals in the EU/EEA and other jurisdictions may have data subject rights enabling them to request to access, delete, correct, remove or limit the use, or receive a copy of their personal information in Oracle’s possession or for which Oracle is otherwise responsible. View instructions on how to exercise these rights.

Email and Profile Information
To customize and control your preferences for receiving electronic communications from Oracle or selected Oracle partners, including opting into (or out of) Oracle communities, newsletters and general interest areas through your Oracle profile, login at https://profile.oracle.com/and follow the prompts to “update my profile.”
You may opt out of Oracle’s email marketing by modifying your online profile as described above or by using our general unsubscribe automated link that is included in Oracle marketing emails.
You can also find details on how to automatically unsubscribe from email communications, as well as how to submit requests to opt-out from phone and postal marketing, on our Oracle.com Account Help page.

Cookie Preferences on Oracle Websites
Oracle enables you to opt out of cookies that are not required to enable core site functionality. Oracle uses its cookie preferences tool to process Internet advertising and tracking preferences. Once you have set your cookie preferences, Oracle will follow the specific choices you made on the cookie preferences tool. Please remember that if you delete your cookies, or use a different browser or computer, you will need to set your cookie preferences again. You may access or change your cookie preference for Oracle websites through the “Cookie Preferences” link provided in the Oracle website footers.

Get started

Privacy Inquiries
Contact Oracle's Privacy Team regarding a marketing privacy-related question, comment, or issue.
Submit a request
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/legal/privacy/privacy-policy/#adchoices
Content:
Oracle Legal
Oracle General Privacy Policy
Privacy Policies
Terms of Use
Copyright
Trademarks
Logos
EEO / Pay Transparency
More
1. INTRODUCTION
This General Oracle Privacy Policy (also referred to as the ‘Privacy Policy’) provides information on the collection, use, and sharing (collectively referred to ‘processing’ or ‘process’) as of personal information by Oracle Corporation and its affiliates (“Oracle”, “we” or “us”) in connection with your use of Oracle websites, mobile applications, and social media pages that link to this Privacy Policy, your interactions with Oracle during in-person meetings at Oracle facilities or at Oracle events, and in the context of other online or offline sales and marketing activities. This Privacy Policy also explains the privacy rights you have in relation to these processing activities.
This Privacy Policy was last updated on October 10, 2024. However, the Privacy Policy can change over time, for example to comply with legal requirements or to meet changing business needs. The most up-to-date version can be found on this website. In case there is an important change that we want to highlight to you, we will also inform you in another appropriate way (for example via a pop-up notice or statement of changes on our website). See the previous version of this Privacy Policy.
As used in this Privacy Policy, ‘personal information’ or ‘personal data’ means information that relates to an identified individual or to an identifiable individual. For example, this could include among other things your name, address, email address, business contact details, or information gathered through your interactions with us via our websites or at events. Personal information is also referred to as ‘information about you.’ For more detail about the types of information about you that we may process, please refer to Section 4 below.
Categories of personal information
Find out what categories of personal information Oracle processes.
Sources
Find out how Oracle obtains your personal information.
Data use
Find out how Oracle uses personal information.
Disclosing
Find out how Oracle discloses personal information within Oracle and with third parties.
Rights
Exercise your privacy rights (opt-out, deletion, correction, or access) by filling out our inquiry form.
Contact
Contact the Global Data Protection Officer with any questions or concerns.
2. SCOPE
This Privacy Policy applies to the processing of personal information by Oracle of:
visitors and users of the various Oracle sites, including our websites on oracle.com, computer or mobile software applications and our social media pages that link to this Privacy Policy (collectively referred to as the sites);
attendees of Oracle events, such as Oracle CloudWorld, or Oracle-sponsored events;
customers and prospective customers and their representatives;
subscribers to Oracle publications and newsletters;
visitors to Oracle facilities; and
suppliers and business partners and their representatives.
The Privacy Policy does not apply to the following activities:
Personal information collected about you by Oracle customers. Oracle customers are responsible for their own personal information collection and processing practices, including when customers use Oracle products or services to process your personal information. To find out more about our customers’ use of personal information about you, you are encouraged to review the relevant privacy policy of the company who collected your information from you. Please consult that company directly if you have any further questions about its use of information about you.
Personal information processed by Oracle to provide Cloud, Technical Support, Consulting/ACS or other services to Oracle customers. “Services personal information” is personal information processed by Oracle on behalf of a customer in order to provide and perform contracted services. If you are an Oracle customer and Oracle is processing personal information on behalf of your company, please refer to the Services Privacy Policy for information on how Oracle processes services personal information, available at https://www.oracle.com/legal/privacy/services-privacy-policy/.
Personal information you provide on third party sites not controlled by Oracle. When interacting with our websites, you also have the ability to link or connect with non-Oracle websites, services, social networks, applications or other features. Enabling these features will lead to other parties than Oracle processing information about you. Oracle does not have any control over these features of other parties. We encourage you to review the privacy policies of these parties before using these features.
3. WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?
Oracle Corporation and its affiliated entities are responsible for processing your personal information described in this Privacy Policy. See the list of Oracle entities. Please select a region and country to view the registered address and contact details of the Oracle entity or entities located in each country.
4. WHICH CATEGORIES AND SPECIFIC PIECES OF PERSONAL INFORMATION DO WE PROCESS?
Oracle can process information about you collected directly from you both offline and online, including when you create an Oracle account to access Oracle products and services or attend an Oracle-sponsored event. Information about you may also be provided to Oracle by selected third party sources, such as data aggregators who may not have a direct relationship with you or by third parties who collect information about you on behalf of Oracle such as when you download an Oracle whitepaper.
Specific pieces of information about you that Oracle may collect and process depending on your interaction with Oracle, includes:
name and physical address, email addresses, and telephone numbers;
demographic attributes, when tied to personal information that identifies you;
photographs that identify you and testimonials;
public information about your work and education history, including professional affiliations;
information you provide on your public social media profiles related to your professional and educational history, such as LinkedIn;
transactional data, including products and services ordered, financial details and payment methods;
company data such as the name, size and location of the company you work for and your role within the company as well as publicly available company information and activity associated with company data;
data from surveys conducted by Oracle or by third parties on behalf of Oracle and publicly available information, such as social media posts;
call recording and chat transcript data from Sales and customer support calls and live chat sessions or interviews;
unique IDs such as your mobile device identifier or cookie ID on your browser;
IP address and information that may be derived from IP address, such as geographic location;
information about a device you use, such as browser, device type, operating system, the presence or use of “apps”, screen resolution, and the preferred language;
certain location or geolocation information you provide directly or through automated means, if you choose to enable location based services from your device or Oracle app; and
behavioral data of the internet connected computer or device you use when interacting with the sites, such as advertisements clicked or viewed, sites and content areas, date and time of activities or the web search used to locate and navigate to a site.
Certain online information about you or device information may originate from the use of cookies and similar technologies (for example, pixel tags and device identifiers) on our sites or sites of third parties. For more information on cookies and similar technologies, please see Section 11 below.
Please note that Oracle does not control the content that you may post to Oracle Communities forums or social networks; in some cases, such content may be publicly available on the Internet. You should carefully consider whether you wish to submit personal information to these forums or social networks and whether you wish to make your profile available to other users, and you should tailor any content you may submit accordingly.
5. WHY AND HOW DO WE USE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?
We may use personal information for the following business purposes:
to communicate and respond to your requests and inquiries to Oracle;
to create and administer an Oracle single sign-on (SSO) account (also referred to as an ‘Oracle Account’) and to deliver functionality on our sites and for their technical and functional management;
to engage in transactions with customers, suppliers and business partners and to process orders for Oracle products and services;
to analyze, develop, improve and optimize the use, function and performance of our sites and products and services;
to manage the security and operation of our sites, facilities, and networks and systems; and
to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to operate our business.
We may use personal information for the following commercial purposes:
to administer subscriptions of Oracle publications and newsletters;
to market our products and services or related products and services, and to tailor our marketing and sales activities to your or your company’s interests; and
to provide select business-to-business services to Oracle customers using publicly available information about companies which may include personal information such as the name of a company’s CEO that is publicly available.
These purposes are described below in further detail.
To communicate and respond to your requests and inquiries to Oracle
If you get in touch with us (such as by submitting contact forms on our sites, reaching out to us via Oracle Sales chat, attending Oracle events or other occasions, sending an email or by visiting social media platforms), we process information about you to communicate with you and to respond to your requests or other inquiries. We can also process personal information to interact with you on third party social networks.
To create an Oracle SSO account and deliver functionality on our sites and for their technical and functional management
When you choose to register with us (such as to make use of our communities), we need to process the personal information provided by you so that we can create an Oracle account for you. Please note, this only applies to personal information controlled by Oracle, not personal information Oracle processes on behalf of our customers.
To engage in transactions with customers, suppliers and business partners and to process purchases of our products and services
If you place an order for our products and services, or if you provide services to Oracle, our employees, customers or partners as a supplier or business partner, Oracle processes information about you to engage in and administer the relevant transactions (such as by sending invoices and making payments), administer your order, and help you get started and adopt our products and services (e.g., by contacting you to activate your Cloud services credits). If you download products or services from our sites, Oracle uses information about you to confirm certain information about your order (for example, that you did not experience problems in the download process).
To analyze, develop, improve and optimize the use, function and performance of our sites and products and services
We may process personal information in order to analyze, develop, improve and optimize the use, function and performance of our sites and products and services, including for quality assurance and training purposes, as well as for marketing and sales campaigns. This includes processing personal information to conduct surveys to improve Oracle products and services. In case the sites permit you to participate in interactive discussions, create a profile, post comments, opportunities or other content, or communicate directly with another user or otherwise engage in networking activities on Oracle sites, Oracle may process personal information when moderating these activities.
To manage the security of our sites, facilities, networks and systems
We may collect site use data for security and operations management to help keep our sites, facilities, networks and systems secure, or to investigate and prevent potential fraud, including ad fraud and cyber-attacks and to detect bots.
To comply with applicable laws and regulations and to operate our business
In some cases, we have to process personal information to comply with applicable laws and regulations. For example, to respond to a request from a regulator or to defend a legal claim. We may also process personal information in the performance and operation of our business, such as to conduct internal audits and investigations or for finance and accounting and archiving and insurance purposes.
To administer subscriptions of Oracle publications and newsletters
If you subscribe to our magazines (such as “Oracle” or “Profit”), we process information about you to administer your subscription to our magazines (including the renewal process) and newsletters.
To market our products, services, events, or related products and services and to tailor marketing and sales activities
Oracle may use information about you to notify you about new product releases and service developments, events, alerts, updates, prices, terms, special offers and associated campaigns and promotions (including via newsletters). Oracle may also use personal information to advertise Oracle’s products and services or related products and services, and also to have our distributors, resellers or partners notify you about our products or services or their related products or services (such as via joint sales or product promotions). We do our best to tailor your website visit, marketing experience and our communications to your expressed interests. This happens, for example, if you sign up for an Oracle community or program like the Oracle Partner Network or Oracle Technology Network.
If you attend an event, Oracle may process information about you gathered in relation to the event and can share information about your attendance with your company. Oracle may also permit designated event partners or conference sponsors to send you up to two communications related to your event attendance. Please note that our partners or conference sponsors may directly request information about you at their conference booths or presentations, and their use of your information that you provide to them will be subject to their privacy policies.
We may also process your personal information to post testimonials on our sites, but will first obtain your consent to use your name and testimonial.
To provide select services to Oracle customers using publicly-available information which may include personal information such as the name of a company’s CEO
For some business-to-business services, we may collect the publicly available names of company directors and officials to better understand the status of these companies and help inform our services which relate to providing customers information about other companies.
6. WHAT IS OUR BASIS FOR PROCESSING INFORMATION ABOUT YOU?
For personal information collected about you in the EU/EEA, the UK and other relevant jurisdictions, our basis for processing is the following:
We rely on our legitimate interest in processing contact and related information about you in order to communicate adequately with you, to respond to your requests, and to tailor our marketing and sales activities to your professional interests.
In order to engage in transactions with customers, suppliers and business partners, and to process purchases and downloads of our products and services, we need to process information about you as necessary to enter into or perform a contract with you.
We process personal information for marketing and sales activities (including events) based on your consent where so indicated on our sites at the time your personal information was collected, or further to our legitimate interest to keep you updated on developments around our products and services which may be of interest to you.
We rely on our legitimate interest to analyze, develop, improve and optimize our sites, facilities, products and services, and to maintain the security of our sites, networks and systems.
In order to comply with applicable laws and regulations, such as to comply with a subpoena or other legal process, or to process an opt-out request.
7. FOR WHAT PERIOD DO WE RETAIN PERSONAL INFORMATION
Oracle maintains personal information for the following retention periods:
Information about you we collect to engage in transactions with our customers, suppliers and business partners, and to process purchases of our products and services, will be retained for the duration of the transaction or services period, or longer as necessary for record retention and legal compliance purposes.
If you have registered for an Oracle SSO account (Oracle Account) to access Oracle sites or to sign up for Oracle marketing materials, your account information will be retained for as long as you maintain an active account. Your account and account information will be deleted if you do not log in for 18 consecutive months. Oracle retains records of that deletion for 90 days.
If you opened an Oracle Cloud account, your account information will be retained for as long as you maintain an active account. After service termination, minimal account information will be held for records retention purposes. Please note the Oracle Privacy team cannot delete, correct, or access service account data or terminate your contracted Oracle product or service account. Please refer to the Contact Oracle page for resources and contact information to administer service account data.
If you have registered for our newsletters and blogs, including Oracle magazine or Profit magazine, your subscription data will be retained for as long as you are subscribed to our distribution lists. Oracle retains records of that deletion for 30 days.
Contact information such as your email address or phone number collected online on our sites or offline from our interactions with you at Oracle events and conferences, and used for direct marketing and sales activities will be retained for as long as we have an active (customer) relationship with you. We treat you as an active contact if (i) you have interacted with Oracle or updated your contact details and preferences in the past 18 months; and (ii) you have not made a deletion request.
If you have reached out to us via Oracle Sales chat, we will delete all chat transcripts 90 days after the chat has concluded.
If you have reached out to us via our support line and you have not opted out of call recording, we will delete call recordings 60 days after the call has concluded unless otherwise specified during the call.
If you have visited an Oracle facility, the personal information needed to allow you to enter the facility will be held for one year after your last visit for records retention purposes.
Personal information needed to retain your opt-out preferences is retained for 20 years (or longer as necessary to comply with applicable law).
8. WHEN AND HOW CAN WE DISCLOSE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?
Sharing within Oracle
As a global organization, information about you may be shared globally throughout Oracle’s worldwide organization. See the list of Oracle entities. Please select a region and country to view the registered address and contact details of the Oracle entity or entities located in each country.
Oracle employees are authorized to access personal information only to the extent necessary to serve the applicable purpose(s) and to perform their job functions.
Disclosing personal information to third parties
We may disclose personal information with the following third parties for a business purpose:
Third-party service providers (for example, credit card processing services, order fulfilment, analytics, event/campaign management, website management, information technology and related infrastructure provision, customer service, e-mail delivery, auditing, and other similar service providers) in order for those service providers to perform business functions on behalf of Oracle;
Relevant third parties in the event of a reorganization, merger, sale, joint venture, assignment, transfer or other disposition of all or any portion of our business, assets or stock (including in connection with any bankruptcy or similar proceedings);
As required by law, such as to comply with a subpoena or other legal process, when we believe in good faith that disclosure is necessary to protect our rights, protect your safety or the safety of others, investigate fraud, or respond to government requests, including public and government authorities outside your country of residence, for national security and/or law enforcement purposes.
We may share personal information with the following third parties for a commercial purpose:
Oracle distributors or resellers for further follow-up related to your interests, specific partners that offer complementary products and services or with third parties to facilitate interest-based advertising; and
Event partners or conference sponsors for Oracle events such as when you scan your badge at a sponsored booth.
When third parties are given access to personal information, we will take appropriate contractual, technical and organizational measures designed to ensure that personal information is processed only to the extent that such processing is necessary, consistent with this Privacy Policy, and in accordance with applicable law.
9. HOW IS PERSONAL INFORMATION HANDLED GLOBALLY?
Oracle is a global corporation with operations in over 80 countries and personal information is processed globally as necessary in accordance with this policy. If personal information is transferred to an Oracle recipient in a country that does not provide an adequate level of protection for personal information, Oracle will take adequate measures designed to protect the personal information, such as ensuring that such transfers are subject to the terms of the EU Model Clauses or other adequate transfer mechanism as required under relevant data protection laws. Additional country-specific information on data transfers may be provided if you sign up for an Oracle SSO account (Oracle Account) or register for an event.
10. HOW IS YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION SECURED?
Oracle has implemented appropriate technical, physical and organizational measures designed to protect personal information against accidental or unlawful destruction or accidental loss, damage, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access, as well as all other forms of unlawful processing.
11. WHAT COOKIES AND SIMILAR TECHNOLOGIES DO WE USE ON OUR SITES?
Cookies and similar technologies (e.g., pixels tags and device identifiers) are used by Oracle and our advertising technology partners to recognize you and/or your device(s) on, off and across different services and devices for the purposes specified in Section 5 above.
When do we use cookies and similar technologies?
Cookies are small text files that contain a string of characters and uniquely identify a browser on a device connected to the Internet. We place cookies in your browser when you visit Oracle sites and non-Oracle sites that host our plugins or tags. Depending on your jurisdiction, you may be presented with different consent options, including the option to reject all non-essential cookies, prior to Oracle placing cookies on your browser. Visitors from all jurisdictions are provided with functionality to opt out of non-required cookies using the cookie preferences tool.
We use cookies and other technologies on all our sites to ensure the best possible and secure experience on our sites and to provide you with tailored information on products and services. Oracle also uses cookies or similar technologies on its sites to collect online information such as your mobile device ID, IP address, and other information about your device, as well as behavioral data of your device usage on our sites (e.g. pages viewed, links clicked, documents downloaded).
How can I manage my cookie preferences?
If you are a visitor or our sites, you can use our cookie preferences tool to opt out of cookies that are not required to enable core site functionality, such as advertising and functional cookies.
If you do not want to receive cookies, you can also change your browser settings on your computer or other device you are using to access our services. Most browsers also provide functionality that lets you review and delete cookies, including Oracle cookies.
12. WHAT ARE YOUR PRIVACY RIGHTS?
You can exercise your privacy rights in accordance with applicable laws as specified on our Privacy Choices page, or by filling out our inquiry form. You have multiple privacy rights, subject to applicable law, in respect of the information we process about you:
Opt-out of our use or sharing of your personal information
You may withdraw consent you have previously provided for the processing of information about you, including for email marketing by Oracle.
Delete personal information
You can ask us to erase or delete all or some of the information about you.
Change or correct personal information
You can edit some of the information about you by. You can also ask us to change, update or fix information about you in certain cases, particularly if it is inaccurate.
Object to, or limit or restrict use of personal information
You can ask us to stop using all or some of the information about you (for example, if we have no legal right to keep using it) or to limit our use of it (for example, if the information about you is inaccurate).
Right to access and/or have your information provided to you
You can also ask us for a copy of information about you and can ask for a copy of information about you provided in machine readable form if you reside in the EU, California or other jurisdiction that provides you this right as a matter of law.
If you are authorized to make an access or deletion request on behalf of a data subject, please reach out to us via the inquiry form and indicate that you are an authorized agent. We will provide you with instructions on how to submit a request as an authorized agent on behalf of a data subject.
In the event you have previously created an account for a certain Oracle portal, you can access and manage your personal information stored in these portals (i) by clicking the links and following the corresponding instructions, and (ii) taking the actions within each portal with regards to your personal information, such as updating your contact details, deleting certain entries or records, or downloading a copy of your profile. Please note that these actions are available to the extent permitted by each portal’s functionality.
If your inquiry relates to your company’s service account or support of Oracle products or services, please note the Oracle Privacy team cannot delete, correct, or access service account data or terminate your contracted Oracle product or service account. Please go to the Contact Oracle page for resources and contact information to administer service account data.
13. DO YOU COLLECT SENSITIVE INFORMATION AND INFORMATION FROM CHILDREN?
Sensitive personal information
We ask that you do not send us, and do not share any sensitive personal information (for example, government-issued IDs, information related to racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religion or other beliefs, health, genetic, or biometric data, criminal background or trade union membership).
Children’s privacy
As a company focused on serving the needs of businesses, Oracle's sites are not directed to minors and Oracle does not promote or market its services to minors, except in very limited circumstances as part of specific educational outreach programs with parental permission. If you believe that we have mistakenly or unintentionally collected personal information of a minor through our sites without appropriate consent, please notify us through our inquiry form so that we may immediately delete the information from our servers and make any other necessary corrections. Additionally, please use this same form to request removal of content or information that was posted to our sites when the registered user was under the age of 16. Please note that such requests may not ensure complete or comprehensive removal of the content or information, as, for example, some of the content may have been reposted by another user.
14. WHAT ARE MY RIGHTS AS A CALIFORNIA RESIDENT?
Under the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), as amended, California residents may request that we:
1. disclose to you the following information:

the categories and specific pieces of personal information we collected about you and the categories of personal information we sold (see Section 4);
the categories of sources from which we collected such personal information (see Section 4);
the business or commercial purpose for collecting or selling personal information about you (see Section 5); and
the categories of third parties to whom we sold or otherwise disclosed personal information (see Section 8).
2. delete personal information we collected from you or correct inaccurate personal information about you (see Section 12); or
3. opt-out of any future sale of personal information about you (see Section 12).
We will respond to your request consistent with applicable law. If you are an authorized agent making an access or deletion request on behalf of a Californian resident, please reach out to us via the inquiry form and indicate that you are an authorized agent. We will provide you with instructions on how to submit a request as an authorized agent on behalf of a Californian resident.
If you are a California resident, you may obtain information about exercising your rights, as described above, by contacting us at 1-800-633-0748. For information on the CCPA requests Oracle received, complied with, or denied for the previous calendar year, please visit Oracle’s Annual Consumer Privacy Reporting page, available here.
15. DATA PROTECTION OFFICER
Oracle has appointed a Global Data Protection Officer. If you believe your personal information has been used in a way that is not consistent with the Privacy Policy or your choices, or if you have further questions, comments or suggestions related to this Privacy Policy, please contact the Global Data Protection Officer by filling out an inquiry form.
Written inquiries to the Global Data Protection Officer may be addressed to:
Oracle Corporation
Global Data Protection Officer
Willis Tower
233 South Wacker Drive
45th Floor
Chicago, IL 60606
U.S.A.
For personal information collected about you in the EU/EEA or other relevant regions, the EU Data Protection Officer can be contacted by filling out an inquiry form and selecting “Contact Oracle’s external EU DPO” in the dropdown menu. Written inquiries may be addressed to:
Robert Niedermeier
Hauptstraße 4
D-85579 Neubiberg / München
Germany
For personal information collected from individuals INSIDE Brazil, written inquiries to the Brazilian Data Protection Officer may be addressed to:
Alexandre Sarte
Rua Dr. Jose Aureo Bustamante, 455
Vila São Francisco
São Paulo, BR
16. FILING A COMPLAINT
If you have any complaints regarding our compliance with this Privacy Policy, please contact us. We will investigate and attempt to resolve complaints and disputes regarding use and disclosure of personal information in accordance with this Privacy Policy and in accordance with applicable law. You also have the right to file a complaint with a competent data protection authority (see Contact information for Data Protection Authorities and Country Specific Disclosures).
17. ORACLE CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
Oracle’s corporate headquarters are located at:
2300 Oracle Way
Austin, TX 78741
USA
Tel: +1.737.867.1000
Previous versions: 07/07/23 | 12/16/22 | 08/03/22 | 05/05/22 | 04/05/21 | 01/19/21 | 01/04/21 | 10/20/20 | 12/23/19 | 3/25/19
Get started

Privacy Inquiries
Contact Oracle's Privacy Team regarding a marketing privacy-related question, comment, or issue.
Submit a request
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.facebook.com/Oracle/
Content:
Hmmm… can't reach this page
It looks like the webpage at https://www.facebook.com/Oracle/ might be having issues, or it may have moved permanently to a new web address.
ERR_QUIC_PROTOCOL_ERROR
Microsoft Edge

================================================================================

Page: https://www.linkedin.com/company/oracle/
Content:
LinkedIn
Join LinkedIn
Email
Password (6+ characters)
By clicking Agree & Join, you agree to the LinkedIn User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Agree & Join
or
Continue with Google
Already on Linkedin? Sign in
LinkedIn
© 2025
About
Accessibility
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Copyright Policy
Brand Policy
Guest Controls
Community Guidelines
Language

================================================================================

Page: tel:918037132100
Content:
LinkedIn
Join LinkedIn
Email
Password (6+ characters)
By clicking Agree & Join, you agree to the LinkedIn User Agreement, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy.
Agree & Join
or
Continue with Google
Already on Linkedin? Sign in
LinkedIn
© 2025
About
Accessibility
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Copyright Policy
Brand Policy
Guest Controls
Community Guidelines
Language

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/cloud/multicloud/what-is-multicloud/
Content:
Cloud Distributed Cloud Multicloud
What Is Multicloud? Uses and Benefits
Michael Chen, Senior Writer | February 20, 2025
Multicloud is a cloud computing strategy that pulls together services from more than one provider to meet an organization’s needs. A multicloud solution may integrate IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS in a tightly or loosely coupled architecture and is seen by CIOs as a good way to both avoid lock-in and get the best fit for each workload. A well-designed multicloud setup should consider software compatibility, network capabilities, performance demands, redundancy, security, operational management, and total cost of ownership. The services set is typically driven by cost, business need, and data governance requirements.
Cloud providers often offer managed services and self-service tools to help customers succeed. The goal is to simplify the design and deployment of multicloud solutions by abstracting complexity and helping with integration.
What Is Multicloud?
A multicloud architecture is when an organization uses multiple public or private cloud services from different providers in its technology stack. The benefits of a multicloud setup often depend on the level of integration among the cloud providers and services.

In a basic multicloud scenario, enterprises simply use different cloud services for different purposes—similar to how a consumer might use a streaming video service from one vendor and cloud-based photo storage from another, accessing both via their home internet. In a more advanced business multicloud environment, integration allows applications running in different clouds to communicate and share data. This reduces the need to duplicate data between services and helps organizations use the hardware, software, services, and other tools available on each platform to their best advantage.
What Is Multicloud
Multicloud systems combine services or workloads from two or more cloud providers to help organizations avoid vendor lock-in, maximize spending, and improve resilience.

Multicloud vs. Hybrid Cloud
Multicloud and hybrid cloud are slightly different concepts with significant overlap. A multicloud approach focuses on using multiple independent cloud providers along with on-premises resources. A hybrid cloud approach focuses on the mixed use of a primary or single public cloud offering and an on-premises data center.
Hybrid clouds are often used by organizations that need to secure highly sensitive data locally or that have specialized needs. Hybrid clouds can also accommodate a phased transition to an all-cloud strategy, using either a single-vendor or multivendor approach. In practice, most organizations are multicloud users, since they have operations in more than one public cloud offering.
Key Takeaways
A multicloud architecture uses multiple cloud platforms from a mix of vendors.
When data moves efficiently across clouds, a multicloud environment can help maximize operations while increasing security and collaboration.
A multicloud approach comes with numerous potential benefits, including flexibility, more optimized feature selection, cost optimization, and more efficient resource use.
Multicloud Explained
A multicloud strategy allows organizations to distribute their workloads across multiple cloud platforms and providers. This helps provide flexibility when picking the right tool for each job. By selecting the best cloud service for each task, IT architects can take advantage of each provider’s strengths, including custom hardware, software, and service capabilities.
Because a multicloud approach involves two or more cloud providers, management occurs on multiple levels. Each platform has its own management tools and dashboards, which allow IT to oversee, configure, and execute granularly within that environment. IT teams monitor the bigger picture a layer above that, and factors such as resource use, policy compliance, interoperability, and operational optimization are all ideally handled by a multicloud management system.
How Does Multicloud Work?
A multicloud strategy lets organizations use multiple cloud computing services from different providers to meet their needs. The potential benefit is more flexibility, redundancy, and scalability versus partnering with a single cloud provider.
For example, a business might choose one provider based on its trusted database while using another for inexpensive storage or machine learning services.
Multicloud Benefits
Most organizations use or plan to use more than one cloud provider to achieve multicloud benefits, which may include cost optimization, data residency, and business agility. The key to achieving these and other upsides is choosing the right mix of providers. The good news is that, with some due diligence, enterprises crafting a multicloud strategy can optimize service, price, and functionality while maintaining their unique IT architectures and improving data security and interoperability. Getting there takes some work, but when done correctly, a multicloud deployment can substantially benefit an organization.
Here are some key possible benefits of a multicloud strategy:
Increased flexibility: Using multiple cloud vendors can make it easier for organizations to add or scale up services on the fly as they spin up new products or services, enter new markets, or hire new employees. Because they’re not limited to what a few providers offer, a solid multicloud approach can help maximize flexibility across the business.
Reduced vendor lock-in: By using multiple cloud vendors, organizations gain greater choice. They can also more easily pilot new providers and test and evaluate services.
Improved disaster recovery: When disaster strikes, a multicloud environment can expedite failover by allowing for backup redundancy with different cloud vendors. This can reduce single points of failure thanks to greater geographic reach.
Optimized cost management: A multicloud environment allows organizations to pick and choose their platforms and vendors, giving them greater flexibility to compare prices and choose the most economical cloud for the task at hand.
Enhanced performance and availability: Multicloud management allows organizations to optimize resource allocation among clouds for better performance. IT may also deploy critical business applications in multiple clouds running in parallel, so if one cloud becomes unavailable, the other can pick up the workload.
Access to best-of-breed services from different providers: A multicloud approach gives organizations the ability to choose the offerings that best fit their needs.
Greater geographical reach: Organizations that need data localization often find that multicloud configurations better enable data residency by providing services within specific geographies as needed to address compliance, privacy, and technical requirements.
Regulatory compliance: With its greater choice of providers and individualized services, a multicloud strategy can make it easier to tailor security and privacy features to address specific regulatory compliance guidelines.
Multicloud Challenges
While multicloud is a useful—and, in many ways, inevitable—approach, overlapping technology and managing distributed data can create challenges. The following are some of the most common:
Complex management: Managing multiple cloud providers can increase operational complexity, simply because no two vendors provide the same cloud management experience. APIs, connectivity, automation tools, and dashboards all come with vendor-specific presentations and nuances. To keep every cloud service running optimally, you need people who can work with each management dashboard and confirm that each integrates smoothly into the overall multicloud management system your organization uses. Sometimes the vendor can help; other times you may need to bring in a specialized service provider.
Security and compliance: Achieving consistent security and compliance across clouds is difficult. Providers offer their own sets of security tools and services, often with different interfaces and functionalities. That can lead to a lack of centralized visibility into a company’s security posture, difficulties with data governance, spotty identity and access management, and other issues.
Interoperability: Lack of integration between different cloud platforms is a significant impediment. Issues may arise when each cloud provider has its own API definitions and gateways. Managing multiple gateways across different environments increases complexity, as separate configurations, certificates, and API keys are required for each.
Cost management: Each cloud platform comes with its own pricing model, billing practices, and usage metrics. Combined with a lack of visibility, this can make it difficult to get a comprehensive apples-to-apples view of costs across providers.
Data governance: Achieving data consistency, privacy, and control in a multicloud environment is complex because each individual vendor offers its own means of governing data use.
Vendor lock-in avoidance: Minimizing dependency on specific vendors is key to avoiding lock-in, but that can be challenging. CIOs who are committed to a multicloud strategy generally favor vendors that support integration via dedicated interconnection services or that have partnerships that allow for better data use across their offerings.
Skill gaps: Multicloud environments present unique challenges in terms of the skills required to manage and operate different platforms. While proficiency in individual cloud platforms is fairly common, cloud-agnostic expertise is rarer. Companies may also have problems finding people who understand the security and compliance implications of multicloud environments and who know how to manage data movement and integration across platforms.
To address these and other issues, plan to invest in training and development programs or partner with cloud service providers that offer managed services.
Multicloud Management
When designing a multicloud architecture, it’s essential to consider the need for data movement, new sources of latency, and methods for operations management, orchestration, and security.
Consider data movement.
Some applications will require, or could benefit from, access to data held in on-premises databases or in other clouds. Moving the data is easy. Maintaining its security and establishing access control mechanisms that are at least as robust as those of the source system is hard. Data movement takes time and may incur egress fees. Many organizations will find that it’s better not to move data into new databases, opting instead to use the same database system across the clouds they use—an option made practical by recent agreements between cloud providers that now allow Oracle’s database platforms to run in the data centers of other hyperscale cloud providers.
Minimize latency.
Network latency directly affects application performance, and different applications have different latency requirements. Some require very low, microsecond latency, while others can tolerate double-digit millisecond delays.
Standardize operations management and orchestration.
Each cloud may have its own set of tools and workflows, all requiring specific knowledge and expertise to allow for smooth connectivity and effective troubleshooting and management. Establishing standard practices and procedures for multicloud management across cloud platforms wherever possible is vital for success.
Plan for security challenges.
In a multicloud environment, disparate security tools and multiple vendors can result in more complex security operations and increased headcount, leading to higher costs and new risk exposure.
A layered security strategy can simplify matters by using built-in security services offered by each cloud provider in combination with partnerships between cloud providers that allow for the consistent management of services.
Multicloud Use Cases and Examples
Organizations of all sizes have used Oracle’s cloud infrastructure to deliver an IaaS platform as part of their multicloud strategies.
Liantis, a workforce solutions company, supports the startup and growth phases of over 225,000 self-employed entrepreneurs and 45,000 employers in Belgium. The company wanted to rearchitect its cloud disaster recovery environment to improve resilience and cost savings. After migrating disaster recovery from running on Oracle Database on Microsoft Azure’s memory-optimized virtual machines to Oracle Exadata Database Service on Oracle Database@Azure, Liantis could consume Oracle services as if the company was part of Azure natively. This streamlined multicloud architecture provided extremely low latency, resulting in faster response times, better security controls, and compelling cost savings.
Conduent delivers digital business solutions and services to more than 600 government and transportation agencies, including 6 of the 10 largest US toll systems in California, Florida, New Jersey, and New York. In total, Conduent processes nearly 13 million tolling transactions every day. The company wanted a cloud solution for one of its clients that could streamline transaction flows, minimize latency, and improve system resiliency. It migrated from a centralized on-premises deployment to Oracle Database@Azure. Because it co-locates Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) and Oracle Exadata Database Service in Azure data centers, Conduent benefits from the capabilities of Oracle Database while developers enjoy a consistent Azure experience.
TIM Brasil is a leading telecommunications firm that offers high-speed mobile and broadband services to more than 50 million citizens throughout Brazil. TIM chose a multicloud approach to drive the transformation of applications directly affecting customer experience. It selected Oracle Interconnect for Microsoft Azure to take advantage of the best of both OCI and Azure. TIM migrated 8,000 workloads and 16 petabytes of storage to the cloud, reducing the time required to handle customer service inquiries by an average of 50%.
Multicloud Architecture
A multicloud architecture is born when an organization integrates cloud platforms or services from two or more providers. Sharing data between clouds is a common driver of integration. Depending on the need for data security or low latency, integration can be as easy as defining access methods between the two cloud environments. But when requirements for data security, consistent governance, and low latency are high, look for orchestration between clouds, typically enabled by agreements between vendors.
In either event, it’s always better to architect systems so the bulk of each application’s data use is contained within a single vendor’s cloud.
Building a Multicloud Strategy
A multicloud approach can complicate application and data management, especially as an organization’s infrastructure expands and its provider count grows. Careful vendor selection and steering development efforts toward standards-based microservices that can run with few modifications in any cloud can help.
Here are some best practices to consider when developing a multicloud strategy.
1. Plan for Migration and Integration
IT teams can maximize ease of integration with some smart decisions—for example, by picking platforms that are ecosystem partners, such as Oracle Cloud Infrastructure and Microsoft Azure, and creating their own private clouds by developing strict operational and usage protocols that rely on open standards. Efficient and effective interoperability among services can deliver a greater return on a multicloud investment, so favor providers that have standing partnerships when possible.
2. Create a Database Strategy
Most organizations have developed a database strategy that revolves around one or two strategic products. It’s easy to stray from that path in hyperscale clouds, where using the vendor’s offerings is an easy choice. But that leads to a bifurcated strategy that comes with difficult choices when repositories aren’t compatible—using data from the two systems can involve complicated processing, and security and governance policies rarely align.
A single database can help simplify data management, making it easier to maintain consistency and data integrity across the environment. It also allows for easier querying and analysis of data from all sources, providing a more holistic view of your information while helping lessen complexity and improve security and governance.
Database strategy should consider the long-term use of data by the business as broadly as possible. Strategic data that’s highly sensitive and critical to the company should be kept in systems where security and governance have been worked out. Individual vendor cloud database offerings still have a place, but they shouldn’t be the default.
Fortunately, it’s increasingly easy to run your database of choice in the cloud of your choice.
3. Investigate Integration and Automation Services
As hyperscale cloud vendors forge partnerships, they’re also developing ways to help customers use their offerings across each other’s services. Some of the first partnerships have involved establishing high performance networking between public clouds as well as between public clouds and customers’ private clouds. These services offer better latency than simply using the internet and typically don’t charge for data egress—costs that can add up with other data egress mechanisms.
They also offer services that help with integration, automating the process of moving data when necessary. One of the most common applications is staging data for analytics. Finally, multicloud orchestration systems can help IT manage an organization’s presence in each cloud from a single system.
4. Enable Real-Time Data Movement and Management
In a multicloud environment, real-time data movement and management involve the transfer of data between cloud platforms. This is achieved via APIs, data connectors, and automation tools that enable data to be transferred and synchronized in real time across different clouds. With real-time data movement and management strategies, organizations can keep important data up to date and accessible, regardless of which cloud platform it’s stored on.
5. Set Policies for API Management and Endpoint Security
As stated earlier, interconnectivity is one of the big benefits of a multicloud architecture and should be considered a key part of a multicloud strategy. To make it work, IT teams must establish consolidated API endpoints and integrate identity and access management systems, both of which can be difficult tasks depending on the platform and its related tools. Also, interconnectivity introduces a new security concern, as services will be exposed to each other across multicloud environments, thus requiring appropriate permissions for all systems involved.
6. Focus on Data Security and Compliance
While working with multiple cloud providers has benefits, as we’ve discussed, it can also introduce data security and governance challenges that require a fresh risk evaluation. One of the first things to consider is data confidentiality. Some applications, such as finance and HR apps, host sensitive data, while other systems, such as marketing tools, have less rigorous privacy demands. Creating appropriate levels of access between applications is key to protecting sensitive data, and this work requires active monitoring across the entire multicloud environment.
7. Add Monitoring and Management Tools
Capable monitoring and management tools are invaluable for IT teams tackling the complexity of multicloud environments. While these tools may add expense, they can provide full-stack visibility for multicloud applications and infrastructure, allowing for real-time monitoring, resource management, and automation, making them worthwhile investments. Many of these tools also include analytics that offer insights into resource and usage that may head off performance problems and reveal ways to save money.
Accelerate Multicloud Deployment with Oracle
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) multicloud services help companies combine multiple clouds to optimize cost, functionality, and performance. Specifically, Oracle helps modernize your databases and applications with solutions such as Oracle Real Application Clusters and Oracle Autonomous Database. Partnerships with Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services, and others allow you to combine Oracle’s unique capabilities with leading services from other cloud providers.
OCI’s 40-plus global cloud regions help you meet data residency requirements, and multicloud services help you easily establish standard operational and management practices, procedures, and tools across cloud platforms to maximize your people, processes, and technology.
A multicloud environment provides redundancy and helps ensure high availability by allowing you to spread workloads across multiple platforms. This approach can also help you optimize your IT spend, as you can choose the most cost-effective cloud services for each workload. Overall, multicloud offers a versatile and agile approach to cloud computing.
Newly forged multicloud partnerships among hyperscale providers reduce data silos and costly interconnects to help deliver improved performance for analytics, AI, edge computing, enterprise applications, and more. Here’s how.
Access the ebook
Multicloud FAQs
What is an example of a multicloud strategy?
An example of a multicloud strategy would be a company that uses Amazon Web Services (AWS) for its computing power and storage while simultaneously leveraging Oracle Cloud Infrastructure for its advanced AI capabilities and localization. This approach allows the business to enhance reliability by distributing workloads across different hyperscale platforms while also selecting the most cost-effective options. By employing a multicloud strategy, the company can harness the strengths of each provider, gaining greater flexibility and resilience in its IT infrastructure.
What is the difference between cloud and multicloud? The difference between cloud and multicloud computing lies in the considered and strategic use of multiple cloud providers for infrastructure and services, which can include data storage, computing power, and various applications sold in an as-a-service model. With a multicloud strategy, businesses can better leverage the strengths of different platforms, optimize costs, and enhance resilience by distributing workloads across various environments, thus improving performance and mitigating the risks associated with relying solely on one cloud provider.
What companies use multicloud? Companies of all shapes and sizes in all industries use multicloud strategies. If you use two different cloud providers—even for basic tools and services, such as email servers or document storage in a shared drive—then you’re a multicloud shop. Enterprises often choose a multicloud approach for technical reasons, for cost reasons, or simply because they prefer to have more than one vendor partner. Gaining exposure to multiple cloud platforms can speed up a company’s migration to the cloud and help IT get out of the data center business.
Is multicloud a good idea? For most companies, yes. A multicloud strategy allows for maximum customizability and works whether you’re all in on the cloud or splitting operations between on-premises and cloud environments. Compared with using a single cloud provider, a multicloud approach gives organizations greater flexibility and freedom to select the features and services that best meet their needs.
Why is multicloud the future? As more and more software and services move to the cloud, a multicloud approach is inevitable. Consider the basic ways that cloud services have been integrated into business operations: data storage and backup, cloud email servers, chat and video collaboration tools—the more these become vital to operations, the deeper organizations will get into their multicloud configurations, which is why effective management tools and strategies are critical.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
What’s new
Contact us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/social-impact/
Content:


================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/erp/financials/ai-finance/
Content:
Applications ERP Financial Management
How AI Is Transforming Finance
Megan O’Brien | Content Strategist | March 26, 2024
While artificial intelligence has been around for decades, the broad availability of generative AI, or GenAI, to consumers starting in 2022 and 2023 sparked widespread attention and opened up entirely new possibilities. Businesses quickly began testing the practical uses of the disruptive technology, and in particular, the finance department is examining GenAI and other forms of AI as a potential competitive differentiator.
The application of GenAI in finance looks poised to change the way the function operates: 70% of CFOs expect productivity hikes of 1% to 10% from implementing the technology, while 13% expect gains exceeding 10%, according to the first quarter 2024 Deloitte CFO Signals survey.
Many are looking toward GenAI and other AI applications to drive accuracy and speed in areas such as financial forecasting and planning, cash flow optimization, regulatory compliance, and more. Others are looking to more basic, but rapidly advancing, applications of AI, such as the automation of three-way matching in accounts payable, intercompany eliminations, and invoice capture. The top hurdles CFOs see to the adoption of GenAI are technical skills (65%) and fluency (53%).
As AI capabilities improve workflows by automating tasks, generating insights, and creating content, the future of the finance function looks more analysis driven and strategic, with finance teams working across the organization to share insights that create value for the business.
What Is AI?
AI refers to the development of computer systems that can perform tasks like humans do. The technology lets computers and machines simulate human intelligence capabilities—such as learning, interpreting speech, problem solving, perceiving, and, possibly someday, reasoning. AI encompasses a wide variety of technologies, including machine learning (ML), decision trees, inference engines, and computer vision. GenAI is a type of AI that can produce various types of content, including text, images, code, audio, music, and videos. It works by using an ML model to process human-generated content to identify patterns and structures. It then generates new content based on the learned patterns from that data set.
How Is AI Transforming Finance? AI in Finance Use Cases
As AI evolves, so will its applications in finance. GenAI capabilities will increasingly be embedded into existing software systems used to manage financial processes, so teams can access such capabilities right in their existing workflows for accounts payable and receivable, budgeting and budget reconciliations, financial close, and more. Right now, there are several areas where AI is already being used to improve decision-making, efficiency, and the bottom line, including the following:
1. Financial forecasting and planning
AI is transforming the financial forecasting and planning process through predictive analytics. Predictive analytics is a type of data analytics used in businesses to identify trends, correlations, and causation. It uses data, statistical algorithms, and machine learning to forecast future outcomes based on the analysis of historical data and existing trends.
Using predictive analytics, finance teams can forecast future cash flows using historical company data, as well as data from the broader industry. While traditional financial forecasts must be manually adjusted when circumstances change, AI-driven forecasts can recalibrate based on new data, helping keep forecasts and plans relevant and accurate. GenAI can even automatically create contextual commentary to explain forecasts produced by predictive models and highlight key factors driving the prediction.
2. Regulatory compliance
With the increasing complexity of regulatory compliance around the globe, the cost and resource burden of regulatory reporting has soared in recent years. Organizations devote significant time and resources to meeting those requirements. AI can take on a portion of the workload by automating compliance monitoring, audit trail management, and regulatory report creation.
A particularly valuable technology in regulatory compliance is natural language processing (NLP). NLP is a branch of AI that lets computers comprehend and generate human language. NLP is capable of quickly parsing through large amounts of textual data, transforming raw text or speech into meaningful insights. It can analyze lengthy documents, contracts, policies, and other text sources to extract critical information, pertinent changes, and potential compliance risks. NLP can even facilitate document management, automatically classifying documents based on predetermined criteria.
3. Cash flow optimization
Effective cash flow management always ranks high on the priority list of CFOs and their teams, and AI is proving to be a valuable tool in cash flow optimization. Due to the large amounts of data required, most finance professionals need more than a day to build a consolidated view of their cash and liquidity. And even then, forecasts can include errors and be quickly rendered obsolete.
Using predictive analytics and machine learning, companies can automatically compile data from all relevant sources—historical and current—to continuously predict future cash flows. With faster, more accurate cash flow forecasting, companies can make proactive moves to maintain healthy liquidity levels. For instance, if there is excess cash, they can take advantage of early payment discounts with suppliers or identify areas to reinvest in the business. When cash is tight, they can reassess loan positions or trigger foreign exchange transfers between subsidiaries. Finance teams also might use AI to optimize working capital by applying the right early payment incentives to select suppliers based on market conditions, payment history, and other factors.
4. Expense management
Expense management can quickly turn into a source of frustration. For employees, meeting expense policy rules by manually collecting receipts, filling out forms, and submitting expense reports is arduous and error prone. And finance teams can’t manually review every expense to ensure that all spend is compliant. AI is a powerful way to accelerate expense management and remove some of its complexity. For instance, optical character recognition (OCR)—a form of AI that can scan handwritten, printed, or images of text, extract the relevant information, and digitize it—can help with receipt processing and expense entry. OCR will scan uploaded receipts and invoices to automatically populate expense report fields, such as merchant name, date, and total amount.
The role of AI in expense management doesn’t end there. Companies can also use AI to automate approval workflows, flagging only the expenses that need the finance team’s review based on predetermined rules, promoting a “manage-by-exception” culture. AI-enabled expense assistants are also becoming more common, helping employees by automatically categorizing expenses, populating and filing the required documentation for each, and providing guidance around a company’s compliance policy.
5. Task automation
Perhaps one of the most common, and arguably one of the most impactful, capabilities of AI is task automation. AI can help automate numerous manual, time-consuming finance processes that used to inundate the finance team, including the following:
Data entry: Extracts and inputs relevant information from statements, invoices, receipts, and other financial documents into a company’s system.
Invoice capture and processing: Scans, reads, and digitizes paper invoices.
Matching and verification: Automatically compares and matches invoices against corresponding purchase orders and delivery receipts.
Payment execution: Facilitates the payment process, including scheduling payments to optimize cash flow, selecting the preferred payment method, and executing the payment automatically or with minimal human intervention.
Reconciliation: Carries out an automated reconciliation process which matches payment transactions with bank statements to verify that amounts and beneficiaries align.
Account code combination defaulting: Predicts and automatically defaults segment values of the account code combination on no-PO accounts payable invoice lines.
Financial close processes: Intelligent process automation (IPA) automates the complex orchestration of the financial close and monitors task status across multiple systems, recommending new rules that guide ongoing automation, automatically kicking off close processes as soon as dependent tasks are completed and updating the close calendar.
Advanced automation of high volume, repetitive, and mundane manual tasks presents numerous benefits, including time and cost savings, decreased errors, and higher employee satisfaction as finance staff get to focus on more strategic, value-added tasks.
6. Financial reporting and analysis
AI can help automate and enhance multiple aspects of the financial reporting and analysis process. In the initial stages, it can extract relevant financial information from various data sources. It can then clean and process financial data by identifying errors, inconsistencies, or missing values and notifying finance staff of the areas needing attention.
AI can then use the data to help generate financial statements, such as income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements, transforming the data into reports that highlight key performance indicators (KPIs), trends, and observations. It can also help with regulatory reporting. GenAI can fill out the needed forms with data provided by the finance team for the staff to review and confirm.
GenAI can be used to produce narrative reports, providing context into the numbers by combining financial statements and data with an explanation of each. GenAI can even help prepare first drafts of 10-Qs and 10-Ks, including footnotes and management discussion and analysis (MD&A).
Benefits of AI in Finance
The integration of AI into finance has numerous benefits, including the following:
1. Increase efficiency and productivity
The list of ways AI can help increase efficiency and productivity in the finance department is already lengthy—and it’s just the beginning. The automation of numerous financial processes—such as data collection, consolidation, and entry—is already a notable add. It helps shift the role of finance from reporting on the past to focusing on the future, through analysis and forecasts that serve the company.
However, that’s merely the start of where finance could implement AI to drive efficiency and productivity. For instance, finance teams are also deploying GenAI to make it easier to find information, fill knowledge gaps, and get work done. Use cases include writing assistance, summarization, analysis, and chat. According to one 2023 study from Boston Consulting Group and MIT Sloan, GenAI improved a highly skilled worker’s performance by as much as 40% compared with workers who didn’t use it. A 2024 PwC report found that 60% of CEOs expect GenAI to create efficiency benefits. And a 2024 NVIDIA survey of 400 global financial services professionals found that “created operational efficiencies” was the AI benefit cited most often by those surveyed at 43%.
2. Improve customer experience and retention
AI helps enhance customer experience and retention by letting businesses deliver personalized, proactive, and integrated interactions across various touchpoints. Personalization is a good example. In a 2024 report by Forrester, 42% of executives surveyed identified the hyperpersonalization of customer experience as a top use case for AI.
AI can help deliver personalization by analyzing customer data, preferences, and behavior to provide the right product recommendations, content suggestions, and offers. Companies can also take it a step further with AI-driven customer segmentation for more-targeted marketing campaigns and promotions. AI can even help make pricing personalized, using real-time insights about individual customer preferences, market changes, and competitor activity to optimize price and discounts.
AI is becoming integral to customer retention with predictive analytics forecasting future customer behavior, lifetime value, and even churn likelihood, letting businesses focus their efforts on proactively addressing issues as they arise.
Lastly, AI-powered chatbots and digital assistants strengthen relationships with customers by answering questions on demand and providing fast, around-the-clock service.
3. Decrease errors
AI in finance can help reduce errors, particularly in areas where humans are prone to mistakes. High volume repetitive tasks can often lead to human error—but computers don’t have the same issue. Leveraging the advanced algorithms, data analytics, and automation capabilities provided by AI can help identify and correct errors common in areas such as data entry, financial reporting, bookkeeping, and invoice processing.
4. Reduce costs
AI is already showing the ability to help reduce costs. In the NVIDIA survey, more than 80% of respondents reported increased revenue and decreased annual costs from using AI-enabled applications. Further, AI implementation could cut S&P 500 companies’ costs by about $65 billion over the next five years, according to an October 2023 report by Bank of America.
AI can help reduce costs in many ways. Task automation is an obvious cost reduction tactic, letting companies decrease their labor costs, fill workforce gaps, improve productivity and efficiency, and have employees focus on strategic, value-adding activities. Companies also say that better insights and decision-making facilitated by AI is key to decreasing costs. Organizations using AI may be better able to optimize inventory levels and supply chains, detect fraud, identify cost-saving opportunities, and allocate resources more effectively.
5. Improve decision-making
A 2023 study by Oracle and New York Times bestselling author Seth Stephens-Davidowitz shed light on the dilemma faced by business leaders around decision-making—and the results were sobering.
Of the surveyed business leaders...
74% believed the number of decisions they make every day has increased 10X over the last three years.
97% wanted help from data in making decisions.
93% felt that the right decision intelligence could make or break an organization.
72% admitted the sheer volume of data has stopped them from making any decision at all.
89% believed the growing number of data sources has limited the success of their organizations.
94% felt the right data and insights could help the finance department make better decisions.
AI’s abilities around data management collection, analysis, and contextualization—just to name a few—help eliminate many of the decision-making roadblocks cited by business leaders.
6. Enhance risk management
AI is particularly instrumental in fraud detection. Trained machine learning models process both current and historical transactional data to detect money laundering or other bad acts by matching patterns of transactions and behaviors.
AI-based anomaly detection models can also be trained to identify transactions that could indicate fraud. AI systems in this case are continuously learning, and over time can reduce the instances of false positives as the algorithm is refined by learning which anomalies were fraudulent transactions and which weren’t.
AI’s capacity to analyze large amounts of data in a very short amount of time is an asset to the finance team. Whether it be analysis of supply chains, operations, or financial markets, AI can help quickly identify potential risks and use predictive modeling techniques to assess the likelihood and impact of possible outcomes.
7. Scalability
A major reason that AI is taking off now, and is accessible to such a broad base of companies, is because of today’s cloud-based AI platforms. AI systems, particularly generative AI, require a lot of computing power. The models are also frequently updated. Those two factors make it very hard to “buy AI” and run it in an organization’s own data center. Cloud computing platforms provide scalable infrastructure and resources for deploying and running AI applications, so companies pay for capabilities they need and enjoy updates without the need for patching and software updates. For companies that use cloud-based ERP systems, the incentive to use AI technology from the same cloud is substantial. There will be much less concern for moving and preparing data for AI if originating systems reside in the same cloud infrastructure.
The Future of AI in Finance
AI is proving to be more than a buzzy technology fad and one of those rare advancements—like the internet and cloud computing—that promise to revolutionize the business landscape. For CFOs and their teams, it couldn’t have come at a better time.
“An omnipresent challenge finance leaders face is growing revenue while also expanding margins,” said Matt Stirrup, Oracle’s executive vice president of global business finance, in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. “This requires running businesses more effectively and leveraging technology like AI to find growth opportunities and spot inefficiencies.”
Looking toward the future of finance, Stirrup sees a large shift in store for the finance function. While AI will likely never fully replace finance team members, it may become a significant part of their day-to-day work.
“Looking forward, we see artificial intelligence not only advancing automation of repetitive tasks but also assisting with more value-added activities,” said Stirrup. “Finance staff augmented by AI tools can focus their time on the most complex analysis and strategic decision-making. The combination of workforce skills and artificial intelligence will propel greater financial insights and impact.”
What can companies do now to prepare for increasing AI use over time? First, aggressively automate processes to reduce transactional work. Second, train staff so they have the skills to effectively interact with AI tools, building analytical capabilities that capitalize on the technology. Giving finance staff increased understanding of AI will also be critical in ensuring the proper security, controls, and appropriate use of the technology.
“As businesses are under pressure to grow revenues while expanding margins, it’s clear that finance teams will be a driving force in that effort,” said Stirrup. “The world runs on data, and organizations that can quickly learn from and execute on it—through the right planning and analytical tools, cloud technologies, and the efficient application of AI—will be the ultimate winners.”
Get Better Data Faster and Grow Your Revenue with Oracle
AI and other advanced technologies are changing the face of finance. Yet, there are several barriers making the implementation difficult.
In a 2023 survey by Cisco, 84% of global private company leaders surveyed thought AI would have a very significant or significant impact on their business, and 97% said that the urgency to deploy AI-powered technologies had increased. Yet, 86% of those surveyed did not feel ready to integrate AI into their businesses, with 81% of respondents citing siloed or fragmented data as the main issue.
AI depends on data. With Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP, companies have a centralized data repository, giving AI models an accurate, up-to-date, and complete foundation of data. With a complete, cloud ERP system that has AI capabilities built-in, finance teams can get the data they need to help increase forecasting accuracy, shorten reporting cycles, simplify decision-making, and better manage risk and compliance. With Oracle’s extensive portfolio of AI capabilities embedded into Oracle Cloud ERP, finance teams can move from reactive to strategic with more automation opportunities, better insights, and continuous cash forecasting capabilities.
AI and Finance FAQs
How is AI used in finance?
AI is being used in finance to automate manual tasks, such as inputting invoices, tracking receivables, and logging payment transactions so employees are free to focus on value-added strategic work. Finance functions are also embracing AI-powered tools to quickly help analyze large amounts of data, provide insights and recommendations, improve forecasts, and propel data-driven decision-making throughout the enterprise.
Will finance be replaced by AI?
It’s unlikely that finance professionals will ever be entirely replaced by AI. While many tasks will be automated or delegated to AI systems, the finance profession will still need human involvement to provide what AI cannot—including human creativity, judgment, emotional intelligence, relationship building, and critical thinking. Instead of being replaced, finance staff augmented by AI tools will focus on the most complex analysis and strategic decision-making.
What problems can AI solve in finance?
Finance teams are expected to help their companies grow revenue while also expanding margins, provide real-time data in multiple customized formats, and drive data-driven decision-making throughout the company—all while dealing with a labor shortage. AI can help solve those problems by giving finance teams better insight into possible investment and cost saving opportunities, automating transactional work, generating needed data automatically, and enhancing data visualization.
What is the future of AI in the finance industry?
AI has already brought significant changes to the finance function, and its impact is expected to keep growing. As AI technologies—and the skills of those who use them—advance, they will become more deeply embedded in the function. In the future, AI is expected to be able to handle more tasks and assess more data sources with increasing accuracy and speed, benefitting many areas of finance, particularly financial forecasting, connected planning, risk management, and scenario planning. As a result, the finance function will continue to evolve to be more strategic and forward facing, focused on driving value for the organization.
See how Oracle Cloud ERP gives you the agility to adopt new business models and processes quickly, helping you reduce costs, sharpen forecasts, and innovate faster.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/security/what-is-zero-trust/
Content:
Security
What Is Zero Trust Security?
Lorna Garey | Senior Writer | October 7, 2024
Security professionals who’ve been in the game a while have seen a lot. The aughts were all about strong passwords, firewalls and antivirus, and keeping software patched. Then requirements such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) shifted focus to data-specific protection measures, including identity-based access controls and encryption. Cloud and mobile devices brought more new tools, processes, and training.
Of course, attackers evolved their strategies, too. In response, proactive organizations are increasingly using zero trust principles to strengthen their security postures and protect assets from unauthorized access and manipulation—they’re hewing to a “never trust, always verify” stance that uses granular segmentation to limit the attack surface and makes the assumption that the enemy is already inside the gate.
Now it’s about reducing the scope of harm.
What Is Zero Trust Security?
A zero trust security model uses frequent user authentication and authorization to protect assets while continuously monitoring for signs of breaches. Segmentation is used to limit the data and assets that an entity can access without reauthenticating. Because zero trust presumes the network has been penetrated by a threat agent, security measures are implemented in depth, rather than simply at the perimeter—the “castle and moat” model.
Zero trust security, also known as a zero trust architecture or perimeterless security, assumes no one and no device or application is universally trusted, whether inside or outside the network. Continuous verification is required. That access is granted based on the context of the request, the level of trust, and the sensitivity of the asset. A zero trust architecture is especially effective for organizations that use cloud applications and have lots of remote workers and locations.
A zero trust architecture uses a security model that verifies every user, service, and device before granting access to a limited segment of the network, for a limited time.

Key Takeaways
Zero trust security moves cyber defenses from static, network-based perimeters to a focus on users, assets, and resources.
Most organizations today are subject to data privacy regulations that emphasize granular access controls, a tenet of zero trust.
Zero trust means just that: Frequent and strong verification is required for every user, device, and application.
Microsegmentation—dividing the network into contained zones and controlling movement between them—is key to success with zero trust security.
Zero Trust Security Explained
NIST, the National Institute of Standards and Technology, defines zero trust as an evolving set of cybersecurity paradigms that move defenses from static, network-based perimeters to a focus on users, assets, and resources. Zero trust assumes there is no implicit trust granted to assets or user accounts based solely on the physical or network location—local area networks versus the internet—or on whether an asset is enterprise or personally owned.
Zero trust security removes implicit trust and instead depends on strong identity and access management (IAM) controls that let organizations allow only authorized people, devices, and applications to access their systems and data. A zero trust security approach has some key tenets:
The expectation is that threat actors are already operating in the network, so IT should presume breaches.
A zero trust environment denies access by default; all technical and human resources are queried to provide authorization/authentication at the transaction level.
The level of asset protection is based on value. Resources may be accessed only after authentication and with the required authorization. Further, continuous verification of permissions should take place, and unneeded access should be revoked.
The network is segmented, and there is no asset or space that does not need security.
Advanced analysis, often using AI, is used to spot anomalous behavior and act immediately to lock out intruders.
Zero trust also takes a defense in depth approach. Defense in depth, sometimes called layered security, involves implementing various security controls at different points within a system to safeguard an organization’s network, systems, and data. It’s analogous to a castle with multiple defensive measures, where getting past the moat doesn’t get you the crown jewels. There are also gates, strong locked doors, and archers in turrets.
Defense in depth controls can be physical, technical, or administrative. Physical security measures include fences, access control systems, and security guards to protect data centers. Technical controls include firewalls, intrusion detection/prevention systems (IDS/IPS), data encryption, and anti-malware software to provide technical barriers. Administrative measures, such as policies, procedures, security awareness training, and access controls aim to address the human element of security.
Why Is a Zero Trust Model Important?
A zero trust model is important because the traditional approach of giving free rein to users and devices within an implicit trust zone or when connected via a VPN is simply not working. These outdated perimeter defense models are failing to secure our data because organizational boundaries are no longer limited to on-premises systems. Remote workers and mobile devices are external to the network perimeter, and adoption of cloud technologies further expands the security boundary. Meanwhile, cyberattacks continue to become more complex and impactful. A successful ransomware attack can cripple an organization, resulting in the loss of critical functionality and exposing sensitive information. No organization is immune—attackers have successfully ransomed large companies, municipalities, and even hospitals.
It’s crucial to adopt a more aggressive approach to securing our systems and data.
As the use of cloud services rapidly expands, it also creates new targets for cybercriminals. A popular exploit is to steal or guess the credentials of a privileged administrator or application, then move freely throughout the network. A zero trust implementation makes it possible to granularly regulate access to systems, networks, and data. That’s why an increasing number of organizations are moving to a zero trust security model to reduce the risk of data breach, detect cybersecurity incidents, and prevent damage from cyberattacks.
Federal Government Zero Trust Security Frameworks
The topic of zero trust is a major focus for the United States Department of Defense (DoD), and the US government overall. In May 2021, the White House issued Executive Order 14028, which directs federal agencies to protect and secure their computer systems by adopting security best practices and advancing toward a zero trust architecture, which officials see as a major tool toward accomplishing this security strategy.
There are several models and frameworks available to help teams develop a zero trust architecture. NIST has devised a model based on six tenets, published in Special Publication 800-207. The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) recently published Version 2.0 of its Zero Trust Maturity Model, which comprises five pillars.
Finally, the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) published a reference architecture aligning enterprise technology with seven pillars.
All these agencies aim to help organizations adopt a zero trust strategy. These models and their associated architectures bring structure and help to define the budget and effort needed for success.
How Does Zero Trust Work?
Zero trust works by simply never implicitly trusting a request for data, applications, or resources and assuming the requester could be a bad actor. When you look at security through that lens, the result is new levels of granularity in tools and policies. Developing a zero trust security architecture starts with identifying sensitive data and critical applications as well as authorized users and data flows. There is a control plane, consisting of a policy controller, and automation and orchestration are critical. There’s no way IT teams alone can achieve the needed level of vigilance. That takes an integrated approach as well as AI/ML.
A zero trust architecture follows six tenets as laid out by NIST.
All data sources and computing services are considered resources that require security considerations. Nothing is to be left unsecured.
All communication must be secure regardless of network location; network location does not imply trust.
Access to individual enterprise resources is granted on a per-connection basis; trust in the requester is evaluated before the access is granted.
Access to resources is determined by policy, including the observable state of user identity and the requesting system. Evaluation may include other behavioral attributes.
The organization ensures all owned and associated systems are in the most secure state possible and will monitor systems to ensure that they remain that way.
User authentication is dynamic and strictly enforced before access is allowed; this is a constant cycle of access, scanning and assessing threats, adapting, and authenticating.
A zero trust architecture uses a security model that verifies every user, service, and device before granting access to a limited segment of the network for a limited time.
A zero trust architecture uses a security model that verifies every user, service, and device before granting access to a limited segment of the network for a limited time.

Core Principles of Zero Trust
The core principles of zero trust can be seen through the lens of the Eight Zero Trust Principles developed by the UK government’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC). These tenets comprise a useful framework for organizations to consider as they embark on the journey to build a zero trust architecture.
In addition, implementing zero trust security can involve a significant cultural adjustment for organizations.
1. Know your architecture, including users, devices, services, and data
Designing any security architecture requires a good understanding of existing assets. Most organizations periodically work to document and assess the users, devices, services, and data they need to protect. For a zero security implementation, undertaking an asset discovery activity will most likely not be a purely technical exercise, but instead involve tasks such as reviewing project documentation and procurement records and having conversations with colleagues. In many cases, departments and lines of business have implemented their own systems.
2. Know your user, service, and device identities
Identity can be associated with a human, an application, or a device. All need to be identified to determine whether someone or something should be given access to data or services. As discussed, the gradual movement to cloud has accelerated the erosion of the traditional network perimeter. With that, identity is being recognized as the new perimeter. Identity platforms provide the capabilities to manage user identities, attributes, and access privileges. Although your identity platform can serve as a main identity repository, many organizations will have multiple identity management systems in place. All of these systems need to be discovered and managed as an organization aims to build a zero trust architecture.
3. Assess user behavior and service and device health
The NCSC recommends continually monitoring “health signals” from users and devices. These signals are behavioral and system indicators that let a policy engine evaluate trustworthiness and cyber hygiene, so it can make access decisions with a degree of confidence. For example, you may want to know the geographic location from which a laptop is trying to log in. For a user on the US East Coast, a login attempt when it’s 3 a.m. in New York might raise a flag.
4. Use policies to authorize requests
One beauty of a zero trust architecture is that you define access policies, which are executed by your policy engine. Policy decisions should consider those health signals we mentioned, including historical and real-time connection information to offer confidence that the requester is genuine and the device is in good cyber health. The NCSC advises that a high-impact action, such as creating a new admin-level user or downloading a customer list, would have to meet stringent policy requirements versus a relatively low-impact action, such as checking the work schedule. When choosing technologies for your zero trust architecture, evaluate how vendors collect signals and factor them into their access control. They should include, at minimum, the user’s role and physical location, authentication factors, device health, time of day, value of the service to be accessed, and risk of the action requested.
5. Authenticate and authorize everywhere
If we assume the network is hostile and an attacker is in the system, we clearly need to have strong authentication methods and build applications to accept access decisions from a policy engine. You’ll see better cultural acceptance across the organization if that strong authentication doesn’t hinder the usability of a service. The NCSC suggests prompting for additional authentication factors only when requests have a higher impact, such as for sensitive data or privileged actions, including the creation of new users. Consider single sign-on, multifactor authentication, and passwordless authentication methods for a strong, consistent, and positive user experience across all of your services.
6. Focus your monitoring on users, devices, and services
Monitoring software should be installed on devices, and data generated by those systems should be exported via a secure transport mechanism, such as a VPN, to a central location for analysis. If you allow personal or guest devices in your environment, you may decide not to trust these devices to the same degree as ones that you can fully monitor.
7. Don’t trust any network, including your own
Zero trust sees the network as hostile, says the NCSC, and advises to not trust any connection between the device and the service it’s accessing—including LANs. Communications to access data or services should use a secure transport, such as a Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol that encrypts data. The NCSC also recommends monitoring for attacks like DNS spoofing and man-in-the-middle, rejecting unsolicited inbound connections, and using encryption and encapsulation.
8. Choose services that have been designed for zero trust
In a zero trust architecture, you can’t trust the network, so services need to be designed to protect themselves from potential sources of attack. Some legacy systems will need significant, expensive retrofitting and may still have issues with usability. The NCSC advises against “reinventing the wheel,” favoring products and services that have been designed and built for a zero trust architecture. Whenever possible, use standards-based technologies that allow interoperability, such as OpenID Connect, OAuth 2.0, or SAML, and ask cloud service providers about their support for zero trust.
Benefits of Zero Trust
A common network security posture is focused on stopping threats that come from outside the network perimeter but can leave data vulnerable to theft from inside the wall. Perimeter security depends on firewalls, VPNs, intrusion detection systems, and other technologies that cybercriminals may know how to breach. This means someone with the correct credentials could be admitted to any network’s sites, apps, or devices. With zero trust security, no one is trusted by default from inside or outside the network.
Other key benefits include the following:
Reduced attack surface. Since zero trust enforces the principle of least privilege, you actually have a smaller active attack surface. Yes, everyone and everything is suspect. However, users and devices are granted only the minimum level of access necessary to perform their tasks. This limits the potential damage from a breach. Imagine a boutique that gives customers access only to only one product at a time instead of letting them browse freely and then monitors them closely—that’s the essence of least privilege. Yes, every asset is an attack surface, but access is significantly restricted.
Minimized impact of attacks. By strategically partitioning the network into microsegments and thereby cutting off lateral movement, a successful attack is limited to a small set of assets that were compromised. And since you’re now applying more stringent access requirements to higher-value data and systems, the expectation is that an attacker ends up with something of trivial value, not your customer list.
Lower time and cost of recovery. A zero trust architecture should lead to fewer and more contained attacks that require less time and money to clean up. Limiting lateral movement keeps an attacker from parlaying lower-level access to further explore your network, and zero trust principles mesh well with data loss prevention (DLP) solutions to prevent sensitive data from being exfiltrated from the network. Zero trust also helps minimize the need for costly breach notification efforts.
Control access. With zero trust, only authorized users and devices based on policy rather than physical location can even attempt access, reducing the number of potential entry points. This approach makes it easier to map controls and minimizes the potential damage if a bad actor gains access through compromised credentials or a vulnerable device.
Improve compliance. Many compliance regulations, such as GDPR and HIPAA, emphasize the importance of robust access control mechanisms. Because zero trust enforces least privilege access, granting users only the minimum permissions needed for their tasks, the architecture aligns well with compliance requirements to restrict access to sensitive data.
Increase visibility and monitoring. Zero trust eliminates the concept of inherently trusting an individual or device within the network perimeter. Everyone and everything requesting access, regardless of location, needs to be continuously verified. By logging these interactions, you maximize visibility and give monitoring systems the data needed to quickly notify IT of anomalies that could indicate a breach.
Zero Trust Use Cases
The concept of zero trust security has gained significant traction in recent years, especially among organizations that are prime targets for cyberattacks, such as banks, investment firms, and other financial institutions that handle sensitive financial data, and healthcare organizations, which hold a wealth of patient data subject to privacy regulations. As mentioned, government agencies are also using zero trust to protect data and critical infrastructure. Organizations with modern IT environments—that is, those that rely heavily on cloud applications and services, have remote workforces, and/or maintain large and complex digital infrastructures—are also fan.
On a granular level, there are some areas where zero trust comes into play.
Application access. At one time, applications generally resided within a defined network perimeter, such as on a server in a local office. Employees gained access based on their location, such as on the company’s local Wi-Fi network. Today, people can work remotely and applications can live anywhere. To more easily manage access, IT may deploy a central control system, often called a trust broker, to authenticate the user requesting access to an application, check the device’s security, and grant access to only the specific resources the user needs following the principle of least privilege.
Cloud security. Zero trust is an excellent strategy for any organization that uses cloud resources. Employees can get access no matter where they are via a strong authentication process, often using multifactor authentication. The system then considers factors such as user role, device, location, and the specific cloud resource to determine if access should be granted. This minimizes the potential damage if cloud credentials are compromised.
Data protection. Data is vulnerable in a network-centric security model that uses only basic protections, such as username and password. Attackers have shown they can circumvent these measures. A zero trust framework with a focus on data-centric policies and protections will add, for example, additional layers of encryption for data in transit. IT can also set dynamic policies using attribute-based access control (ABAC). Where traditional access control often relies on predefined roles, such as administrator or editor, ABAC instead focuses on attributes, such as department, location, job title, security clearance, data type, document owner, access method, and the device’s physical location and type. This allows for very precise definitions of access permissions based on attributes the organization defines. It’s potentially very granular protection and often will require application code changes.
Endpoint security. A zero trust platform helps protect assets by proactively communicating with the endpoint security software on a user’s device to assess its security posture. Is the operating system up to date? Is any malware detected? Is it personal or owned by the company? Based on the data collected, the zero trust platform grants or denies access. Both the user’s activity and the device’s health are continuously monitored by the zero trust platform for any suspicious behavior.
Identity and access management. IAM is a pillar of CISA’s zero trust model—it lays the foundation for the architecture by defining who can access what resources. IAM involves strong authentication methods, including multifactor authentication, as well as user provisioning and access control mechanisms, such as role-based access control (RBAC) and privileged access management to safeguard sensitive data.
Internet of Things (IoT) security. Companies with IoT programs often find zero trust security invaluable to protect a large number of devices, frequently in far-flung locations and gathering sensitive data. Traditional perimeter-based security technologies simply aren’t effective for IoT devices, which may have limited user interfaces and rely on automated processes, making older authentication methods challenging. Because zero trust continually verifies all entities requesting access, it ensures that only authorized IoT devices can connect to the network. And the principle of least privilege means IoT devices get the minimum level of access needed to function. This reduces the potential damage in case of device compromise. And a zero trust approach can scale to accommodate large-scale IoT environments.
Network segmentation. While traditional network security focused on securing the network perimeter, zero trust takes a more granular approach, segmenting the network into small zones and controlling traffic flow between them. Newer zero trust strategies use microsegmentation techniques that reduce zone size even further. This is done using firewalls rather than routers between segments. While security is improved, performance may suffer. How small segments become is a function of both security need and firewall performance.
Privileged access management (PAM). Zero trust and PAM are distinct security concepts that work together well. PAM systems focus specifically on securing privileged accounts—that is, user accounts with elevated permissions that grant access to critical systems and data. These accounts are prime targets for attackers. Think about a CFO with access to all financial and banking records, or a high-level system administrator. PAM depends on three pillars: multifactor authentication; just-in-time tools that grant privileged access only for the time it’s absolutely needed; and session monitoring and journaling to record exactly what privileged users are doing at any given moment, to hopefully pick up on suspicious behavior.
Remote access. The rise of work from anywhere is an argument in favor of zero trust, since there is no longer a network perimeter, and VPNs bring their own set of issues. A zero trust strategy makes granting remote access safer because it constantly verifies users without their intervention through strong authentication methods, then grants remote users only the minimum level of access needed to perform their tasks. Organizations can write policies that define what that minimum access looks like. Zero trust is also context aware; that is, it considers factors including user identity, device security posture, location, and the specific resource being accessed when determining access permissions.
Third-party access. Granting access to third parties in a zero trust environment requires a shift from the traditional approach to “never trust, always verify.” Besides the remote access principles outlined above, companies may wish to set up their IAM systems to manage third-party user identities and access. Develop a policy for creation, provisioning, and termination of accounts based on the individual partner. Consider a zero trust network access (ZTNA) system to provision secure tunnels to specific resources without granting access to the entire network. The just-in-time and session monitoring tools used for privileged internal users are also handy for partners.
7 Stages of Zero Trust Implementation
Achieving zero trust is a continuous journey, not a one-time project. You don’t have to reinvent the wheel, either—consider using one of the models from NIST, CISA, DISA, or NCSC as a technical roadmap. From a project level, plan to implement zero trust in a phased manner to minimize disruption and allow for employees, partners, and IT staff to adjust. Clearly communicate the rationale behind the effort to stakeholders, and address any concerns transparently. And carefully choose security products that can scale to accommodate growth and adapt to changing security realities.
More steps for success:
1. Identify and prioritize your assets. A zero trust security approach is about protecting sensitive and valuable data. To do that, you need to know what you have. This map will serve as the basis for your zero trust plan.
2.Identify your users and their requirements. A zero trust model requires capturing user information, managing user identities, and organizing access privileges. Map out all people and systems accessing your assets, looking for unneeded privileges.
3. Map out your zero trust strategy. Plan how you’ll architect to mitigate risk based on your assets and users. Factor in your budget, IT resources, and the complexity of your infrastructure when determining the timeline for each phase.
4. Take a data dive. When systems identify anomalies in data access and detect attempts to access systems outside of policy, take a hard look at that data. Almost all activity is repetitive, so anomalies are frequently an early indicator of attempted data theft. Make that information work for your mitigation efforts.
5. Map your traffic flows. Zero in on dependencies here. Does every person and system that’s able to access a database containing sensitive data need that information?
6. Automate where possible. Fill in gaps with process improvements and tools. Without automated monitoring of resources and activity, for example, organizations are unlikely to succeed with zero trust. Doing the job right demands modern security tools, including a robust IAM system to centrally manage user identities and access rights and multifactor authentication (MFA) to vet all access attempts. Encryption of data at rest and in motion is key to protecting sensitive data against unauthorized access.
7. Put metrics in place. Define how you’ll measure the success of your zero trust implementation. Key performance indicators could include a reduction in access privileges, an increase in multifactor authentication use, and buy-in from executives and line-of-business leaders.
11 Zero Trust Best Practices
CISA in its zero trust model points out that most large enterprises—including the federal government—face common challenges. Legacy systems often rely on “implicit trust,” in which access and authorization are infrequently assessed based on fixed attributes. Changing that may require significant investments along with buy-in from a wide range of stakeholders, including executives, partners, and suppliers. Best practices include the following:
1. Verify and authenticate. The basis of zero trust is requiring verified authentication of every user and device, every time they request access to systems, networks, and data. This process involves validating identities and associated access rights to a particular system. As an example, an employee might authenticate in the morning for a set time period using an authorization service, such as OAuth, which issues tokens that are valid for a limited period of time. When he needs to access a database, his entitlements for that system are confirmed by the token. Zero trust also advises advanced controls, such as behavior analytics, for devices. This as well as logs and journals help IT track activities, create reports, and enforce policies.
2. Use microsegmentation. The more granularly you can limit lateral movement without degrading performance, the better. CISA recommends distributed ingress/egress microperimeters and extensive microsegmentation based on application architectures, with dynamic just-in-time and just-enough connectivity. This doesn’t mean firewalls everywhere. Microsegmentation techniques include virtual machines for each application, east/west traffic encryption, and creating software-defined networks within the physical network to effectively isolate and secure individual segments. Intelligent routing algorithms can help optimize traffic flows and reduce latency. Regular monitoring and fine-tuning of the segmentation strategy is also crucial to balance network performance and security.
3. Continuous monitoring. Zero trust involves implementing systems that monitor and log user activity and system health. Base network monitoring on known indicators of compromise and understand that you’ll refine your processes over time to address gaps in visibility. A system that makes use of AI will learn what normal behavior looks like and then watch for and alert on anomalies.
4. Context-aware logging. Log entries contain access attempts and contextual information, such as user identity, device details, and the specific resource accessed. This data allows for comprehensive analysis and helps identify potential security incidents or suspicious activity. Monitoring systems create a detailed audit log that can be helpful for demonstrating compliance with regulations that require data access tracking. Again, AI-enabled tools can improve detection.
5. Pervasive encryption. Data is the most critical asset for most organizations, and protecting data at rest, in transit, and in use demands pervasive encryption and activity monitoring to detect unauthorized access attempts.
6. Least privilege access. In the context of zero trust, least privilege access is a core—and pretty self-explanatory—principle. It requires granting users, applications, and devices only the bare minimum access necessary to perform their tasks. This isn’t to indicate a lack of trust in employees but rather to minimize the potential damage if a bad actor gains access through stolen credentials, a compromised device, or a vulnerability.
7. Focus on device trustworthiness. A network based on zero trust principles doesn't inherently trust any device, regardless of whether it’s inside the perimeter, company owned, or previously granted access. This seeks to ensure that only authorized and compliant devices are granted access. In this case, compliance might involve meeting security posture requirements like having updated software, antivirus protection, and other monitoring software in place.
8. Secure access controls. Zero trust extends to the cloud-based applications and workspaces in use by many organizations today. The architecture demands that these applications have a known and approved security posture and that access to them is controlled.
9. Zero trust network access. ZTNA, also known as software-defined perimeter, is a security approach that controls access to internal applications and resources in a much more granular way than a traditional VPN, which grants access to an entire network once a user is verified. ZTNA evaluates security credentials every single time access to a resource is requested. The system considers context and may grant only partial access. If access is granted, it’s via a secure session between the requesting entity and the specific asset. Then, activity and device health are continuously monitored for anomalous behavior that might indicate a threat.
10. Endpoint security. Got users who tend to lag behind on making software version or malware signature updates or resist installing security software in their personal devices? Zero trust will force their hands because an endpoint without the security profile defined by your policy will simply not be granted access. IT should manage endpoint security on company-owned devices, and compliance should be verified when new sessions are initiated.
11. User education and awareness. It’s natural for employees to chafe at zero trust principles, at least at first. It may help to provide education sessions and give concrete examples of how the architecture could save the company money and reputational damage.
Strategies for a Smooth Cultural Transition
Traditional network security models often assume a certain level of trust once users are inside the network perimeter. Zero trust challenges this, and it can be a significant mindset shift for both IT staff and people accustomed to unfettered access within the network.
In addition, zero trust emphasizes strong identity and access management practices—think stricter password policies, multifactor authentication, and a more centralized approach to managing user identities and access privileges. Again, people accustomed to less stringent access controls may find these changes inconvenient. Zero trust involves more scrutiny of user activity and device health, which may raise privacy concerns among some employees who feel their actions are being monitored too closely. Some employees will refuse to install mandated software on their personal devices. What’s your response? And, security, network operations, and application development pros are not immune from resentment.
You get the gist. It’s a cultural shift, and success hinges on user buy-in. Strategies for a smooth transition include:
Clear communication of the reasons behind adopting zero trust, emphasizing the benefits of improved security and compliance. Openly address privacy concerns employees might have and explain how zero trust actually protects their data.
A phased rollout, allowing employees, partners, and IT staff the time to gradually adjust to the new security measures. Prioritize implementing zero trust in a way that minimizes disruption to workflows and maintains a positive user experience. Cloud-based technologies can help a lot here.
Comprehensive training on zero trust principles, access control procedures, and best practices for using resources securely in the new environment.
Acknowledging the cultural shift involved and thanking people for their efforts can go a long way toward successfully adopting zero trust and creating a more secure and resilient IT environment.
History of Zero Trust Security
In 2004, the concept of zero trust originated from a presentation at a Jericho Forum event given by Paul Simmonds. Simmonds coined the term “deperimeterization” and proposed a new model that fundamentally accepts that most exploits will easily transit perimeter security. Further, he added that intrusion detection technologies have little to no benefit at the perimeter, it’s easier to protect data the closer we get to it, and a hardened perimeter strategy is unsustainable.
In 2011, Google created BeyondCorp, which is the company’s attempt at implementing zero trust. Initially developed to enable remote work and eliminate the use of a VPN, BeyondCorp is not a single product, but rather a set of tools and best practices. Google Cloud offers various services that can be implemented to achieve a BeyondCorp security posture.
Then, in August 2020, NIST published the Zero Trust Architecture document which contained an abstract definition of zero trust architecture, or ZTA, and provided deployment models and use cases where zero trust could improve information technology security posture. In May of 2021 the White House issued an Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity that codified zero trust, and that September CISA’s Zero Trust Maturity Model Version 1.0 was published to complement the Office of Management and Budget’s Federal Zero Trust Strategy. CISA’s model provides US federal agencies with a roadmap and resources to build a zero trust environment and is available to companies, too.
In January 2022 the Office of Management and Budget issued memo M-22-09 to federal agencies with the subject line, “Moving the U.S. Government Toward Zero Trust Cybersecurity Principles.” By July the Department of Defense (DoD) Zero Trust Reference Architecture was published as prepared by DISA and the National Security Agency (NSA) Zero Trust Engineering Team. The architecture provided an end-state vision, strategy, and framework for strengthening cybersecurity and guiding the evolution of existing capabilities to focus on a data-centric strategy. The DISA architecture is an excellent model for organizations moving to the cloud to follow.
Adopt Zero Trust with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
To help implement zero trust principles, Oracle’s security-first approach requires explicit policies to allow access to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI). This means each component is considered a resource within OCI, and access must be explicitly granted. All communications within OCI are encrypted, and access rights are checked against existing policies. Those policies can be structured to grant extremely fine-grained access control for each resource, including implementing dynamic access.
OCI implements monitoring and auditing on cloud resources, allowing you to use existing object storage to conduct analysis, or you can employ your security information and event management (SIEM) tool of choice. Oracle Cloud Guard Instance Security provides automated responses to triggered events, helping speed reaction time to potential threats.
Organizations implement zero trust because they recognize that traditional security strategies aren’t keeping up with today’s threats. When all stakeholders are educated to understand that attackers may already be inside the network, they tend to accept more stringent controls that can reduce the risk of a successful attack, better protect sensitive information, and build trust with partners and customers.
Your AI center of excellence should play a pivotal role in overseeing and managing the rollout of AI agents. Don’t have one? Here’s how to get one up and running now.
Access the ebook
Zero Trust Security FAQs
What are the five pillars of zero trust?
The five pillars of zero trust, based on the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency’s recently published Zero Trust Maturity Model Version 2, are identity, devices, networks, applications and workloads, and data. These five pillars work together to create a comprehensive security strategy predicated on continuously verifying all users, devices, applications, and access requests. This layered approach is meant to make it much harder for attackers to gain a foothold.
What are the four goals of zero trust?
The four main goals of zero trust security are to limit the attack surface; enhance an organization’s security posture via strong authentication, least privilege access control, and continuous monitoring; safely provide employees and partners with the tools they need, including cloud services, from any device; and improve compliance.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
What’s new
Contact us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.youtube.com/oracle/
Content:


================================================================================

Page: https://go.oracle.com/subscribe/?l_code=en&src1=OW:O:FO
Content:
home
Subscribe to marketing communications from Oracle
Watch your inbox for a link to complete your subscription.
Email *
First Name *
Last Name *
Country *
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      

                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      



                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                    Select Country
Afghanistan
Aland Islands
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Keeling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Congo The Democratic Republic of the
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Cote D'Ivoire
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
East Timor
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Eswatini
Ethiopia
Faeroe Islands
Falkland Islands (Malvinas)
Fiji
Finland
France
France Metropolitan
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern Territories
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard and Mc Donald Islands
Holy See (Vatican City State)
Honduras
Hong Kong
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jersey
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Korea Republic of
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau
Macedonia
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Micronesia Federated States of
Moldova Republic of
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestinian Territory
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Reunion
Romania
Rwanda
Saint Barthelemy
Saint Helena
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin (French Part)
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome and Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Surinam
Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania United Republic of
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks and Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
United States Minor Outlying Islands
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Viet Nam
Virgin Islands British
Virgin Islands U.S.
Wallis and Futuna Islands
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Company *
Department *
Job Title *































By filling and submitting this form you understand and agree that the use of Oracle's web site is subject to the Oracle.com Terms of Use. Additional details regarding Oracle's collection and use of your personal information, including information about access, retention, rectification, deletion, security, cross-border transfers and other topics, is available in the Oracle Privacy Policy.
© 2025 Oracle
Terms of Use and Privacy
Subscriptions
Contact Us
Cookie Preferences

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/corporate/contact/
Content:
Contact us
Chat live with Oracle Sales
Oracle University Support
Send a message to Oracle Sales
Send us a message here and we’ll get back to you. For a faster response, please provide your contact information.
Send us a message
Chat with Oracle Sales
Open a live chat
Call Oracle Sales
+1.800.633.0553 (US)
Find phone numbers for your region
How can we help?
Send a message
Training and Certifications
Technical support
Billing
Account support
Cloud trial support
Send a message to Oracle Sales
Select the product you’re interested in. You’ll then be prompted to provide your contact details and a message. Once you send those, a sales representative will contact you.
Product category
Please select a product category
Cloud Applications
Cloud Infrastructure
Customer Success Services
Database
Java
Linux and Virtualization
Industry Solutions
On-Premises Products
Oracle University
Product
Please select a product
Sales, Marketing, and Commerce
Service and Field Service
Financial (ERP/EPM/Procurement)
Supply Chain Management and Manufacturing
Human Capital Management
Analytics
Compute/Block Storage
Networking
Integration
Security, Management, and Governance
Application Development
Middleware
Connect with a sales representative
Oracle Database
Autonomous and Database Cloud Services
MySQL
Big Data
Exadata and Database Appliances
Java
GraalVM
Linux
VirtualBox
Container Platform
Virtualization
Communication Applications
Communications Network and SBC
Construction Project Management
Financial Services
Food and Beverage
Health Sciences
Hospitality
Retail
Utilities
E-Business Suite
GraalVM
Linux
Engineered Systems
Server and Storage Systems
JD Edwards
PeopleSoft
Siebel
Connect with a sales representative
Submit





Partners
Learn more about Oracle PartnerNetwork.
Looking to find an Oracle Partner? Search our Partner Finder.
Questions? Contact Partner Assistance.




Careers
Explore Oracle Careers to get to know us, learn more about what we do, and see if your ideal role awaits you.

Are you a student or recent graduate? Go to our college recruiting page.

Search for jobs
Additional resources
Employment verification
Oracle Support contacts global directory
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/cloudworld/
Content:
Oracle CloudWorld
Save the Date: CloudWorld 2025
October 13—16, 2025 in Las Vegas
CloudWorld is where the world comes together to see the latest innovations from Oracle unveiled, hear from industry leaders and visionaries, learn how the most successful companies are solving their biggest challenges, and network within a vibrant community.
Sign up now to receive the latest news, updates, and notifications when registration opens for CloudWorld 2025 in Las Vegas. Receive $100 off your early registration when you subscribe now.
Subscribe now
about this years CloudWorld
Open a world of possibilities and opportunities
CloudWorld presents to attendees a vibrant ecosystem of innovations, ideas, and interactions, all interconnected by Oracle technology. Customers from around the world and in every industry come away from CloudWorld inspired, educated, energized, and connected.
The countdown is on to registration opening on Tuesday, May 6, 2025:
39
Days
:
09
Hours
:
18
Minutes
Event passes and pricing

  Individual Pass
Early: $1,699
Saver: $1,999 | Late: $2,399
Group Pass
$1,799
Five or more general attendee passes
Public Sector
$1,399
Without The Party: $1,099
Become a sponsor
As a sponsor, you get more from Oracle CloudWorld: more visibility, more networking opportunities, and more value. We offer multiple sponsorship levels to suit your business and budget. To learn more about sponsorship levels at CloudWorld 2025, submit a query through the link below and a sponsorship team member will contact you.
Learn more
about CloudWorld sponsor opportunities
Content Areas
CloudWorld offers a robust program of learning and networking opportunities for audiences interested in key content areas including: AI, Oracle Applications, Customer Success, Industry Solutions, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure and Oracle Database.
AI
Explore Oracle’s complete suite of AI services—including generative AI offerings—for data scientists, developers, business leaders, and end users.
Oracle Applications
Hear about innovations, best practices, and real-world use cases that are transforming finance, HR, supply chain, sales, service, and marketing.
Customer Success
Learn how organizations achieve exceptional outcomes with Oracle’s fully integrated infrastructure and applications solutions.
Industry Solutions
Discover how organizations of all sizes and in all industries use Oracle to solve complex business challenges, innovate faster, and get ahead of the competition.
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)
Migrate, modernize, and develop applications with a full set of cloud capabilities—including comprehensive AI—in the public cloud, across clouds, or in your data center.
Oracle Database
There’s no AI without data. Join us and learn how to kickstart and expand your AI initiatives with Oracle Database, Autonomous Database, and Exadata.
Ways to Learn
No matter your learning preference, we’ve got you covered! See the variety of ways to explore and learn at CloudWorld below.
Keynotes
Main-stage and solution keynotes from Oracle executives and customer thought leaders featuring high-level views on the latest trends, innovations, and more.
Learning Sessions
CloudWorld offers a variety of breakout sessions including learning sessions and panels, organized by tracks, attendee level, and topics.
Theater Sessions
Enjoy informative sessions presented by business leaders and technology visionaries in open-air theaters located on the show floor.
Hands-On Labs
Roll up your sleeves and dive into extended educational and problem-solving sessions led by the Oracle LiveLabs team.
Tutorials
Expand your knowledge in these two-hour, monitored learning sessions covering cloud, data, AI, and more.
Birds-of-a-Feather Sessions
Share your insights on a variety of topics in these networking roundtable-style sessions with an emphasis on discussion.
Deep Dives
Apply your experience and knowledge with in-depth educational and problem-solving sessions led by the Live Labs team.
Pre-Event Training
For an additional fee, attendees can enroll in Monday’s full day, small group training sessions that provide valuable hands-on learning led by Oracle experts.
Product Showcases
See the technology of the future in these 45-minute product demos delivered by Oracle and our partner product experts.
See what’s happening
Explore an agenda packed with learning, connections, innovations… and fun! Details are subject to change.
Monday, Oct. 13
Tuesday, Oct. 14
Wednesday, Oct. 15
Thursday, Oct. 16
Monday, Oct. 13
8AM - 9PM
8AM - 9PM
Registration

9AM - 6PM
Pre-event training

9AM – 1PM
Partner Briefing Center

4PM – 6PM
First-timer welcome










See you at CloudWorld Tour 2025
Now you can experience CloudWorld in a city near you. Oracle CloudWorld Tour hits the road in 21 cities in 2025. Featuring business leaders, learning sessions, solution demos, and more from Oracle’s flagship CloudWorld event, each CloudWorld Tour is a complimentary one-day event. Stay tuned for more news as we announce the full lineup of cities, dates, speakers, and agendas.
View all
CloudWorld Tour
cities
Follow CloudWorld on social media
Oracle CloudWorld on Twitter
Oracle CloudWorld on Facebook
Oracle CloudWorld on LinkedIn
Oracle CloudWorld on YouTube
Oracle CloudWorld on Instagram
#ocw #cloudworld
© 2025 Oracle Event Terms and Conditions Privacy/Do Not Sell My Info Cookie Preferences Ad Choices

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/corporate/accessibility/
Content:
Overview
Policy
VPATs
Learning and Support
About Oracle
Oracle’s Accessibility Program
For many reasons—legal, business, and ethical—Oracle recognizes the need for our applications, and our customers' and partners' products built with our tools, to be usable by the disabled community. The Oracle Accessibility Program Office, reporting to the office of the Chief Corporate Architect, is responsible for defining the corporate standards for accessibility, and developing materials to train all employees so that they can successfully create products that meet those standards.
“Oracle is committed to creating accessible technologies and products that enhance the overall workplace environment and contribute to the productivity of our employees, our customers, and our customers' customers.”
Safra Catz,
Chief Executive Officer, Oracle
How to Configure and Use Oracle Products
Oracle has many technical papers and demos to help you learn how to configure and operate certain Oracle products if you have a disability, and in the case of a tool, how to configure and operate the product to produce accessible output. We recommend that you refer to the complete documentation set of the respective product for more information.
The ultimate success of a user with a disability interacting with Oracle products depends on many factors besides just our software. To gain a better understanding of the elements that may contribute to a successful experience using the accessibility features of our products, read The Accessibility Puzzle.
Resources
Instructions
A Guide to Accessible Content for Oracle Business Intelligence Suite 11g (PDF)
Accessibility in Oracle Forms Applications (PDF)
A Guide to Accessible Content for Oracle Business Intelligence Suite Enterprise Edition Plus 10g (PDF)
Accessibility of PeopleSoft Products
Oracle E-Business Suite Accessibility (PDF)
Testing Oracle Products for Accessibility (PDF)
Accessibility Guide for Siebel Business Applications Version 8.1 (PDF)
Building Accessible Web Sites with Oracle Portal (PDF)
Using AT with Oracle HTML Products (PDF)
Technical papers
A Guide to Accessible Content for Oracle Business Intelligence Suite 11g (PDF)
A Guide to Accessible Content for Oracle Business Intelligence Suite Enterprise Edition Plus 10g (PDF)
Accessibility Guide for Siebel Business Applications Version 8.1 (PDF)
Accessibility in Oracle Forms Applications (PDF)
Using Assistive Technology Products with Oracle HTML-based Products (PDF)
Technical information
The Oracle Corporate Accessibility Program (PDF)
Bloor Research: Oracle's Commitment to Accessibility (PDF)
Oracle Accessibility News
AI and ML Tools in OCI and their Potential Benefits for Greater Accessibility
Oracle honors National Disability Employment Awareness Month and World Standards Day
Oracle Sponsors 2023 National Convention of the National Federation of the Blind

March 2021: Oracle Presentation and Sponsorship of CSUN
February 2021: European Disability Forum and Oracle e-Accessibility Scholarship 2021
October 2020: European Disability Forum and Oracle e-Accessibility Scholarship Winner Announced
March 2020: Oracle Presentations and Sponsorship of CSUN
Stay connected
Contact us
Email us
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://twitter.com/oracle
Content:
Your connection isn't private
Attackers might be trying to steal your information from twitter.com (for example, passwords, messages, or credit cards). Learn more about this warning
NET::ERR_CERT_AUTHORITY_INVALID



















Refresh
Advanced

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/corporate/analyst-reports/
Content:
Overview
Cloud Applications
Cloud Infrastructure
Industries
About Oracle
Oracle Analyst Reports
Discover the latest reports, research, and news from top analyst firms such as Gartner, IDC, Forrester, and Omdia, helping you gain insights into Oracle products and services.
Contact Oracle Analyst Relations
Customer reviews
November 2024
Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud ERP for Service-Centric Enterprises
Learn why Gartner named Oracle (Fusion Cloud ERP) a Leader in Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud ERP for Service-Centric Enterprises.
Read the Gartner report
October 2024
Magic Quadrant™ for Strategic Cloud Platform Services
Learn why Oracle was Recognized as a Leader in the 2024 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Strategic Cloud Platform Services.
Read the Gartner report
October 2024
Magic Quadrant for Distributed Hybrid Infrastructure
Read how Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI)’s distributed cloud can deliver the benefits of the cloud with greater control and flexibility to help address regulatory and sovereignty requirements.
View the Gartner report
Industry Analyst Research
Cloud Applications
Read analyst reports, research, and news for cloud applications including Advertising and CX, ERP, EPM, HCM, SCM, and more.
Explore the Applications reports
Cloud Infrastructure
Get the latest analyst research, reports, and news across cloud platforms, cloud infrastructure, applications, data management, cloud security, and more.
Explore the Cloud Infrastructure reports
Industries
Explore analyst reports and news across Communications, Health Sciences, Higher Education, Retail, Energy and Water, and more.
Explore the Industries reports
Customer success stories
See all customer stories
Through the lens of our customers, explore the myriad ways Oracle is helping transform our customers’ businesses and empowering them to engage in groundbreaking, profound ways across the globe.
Customer reviews
Gartner Peer Insights™
Gartner Peer Insights is a platform for rating and reviews of enterprise technology solutions by and for end-user professionals.
Read Oracle product reviews
G2
G2 is the world’s largest tech marketplace where businesses can discover, review, and manage the solutions they need to reach their potential.
Read Oracle product reviews
TrustRadius
TrustRadius is a trusted review site for business technology. Buyers can make better decisions informed by these unbiased and insightful reviews.
Read Oracle product reviews
Get started

Contact Sales
To learn more about Oracle’s products and services, please contact our Sales team.
Get in touch
GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Magic Quadrant and Peer Insights are registered trademarks of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved.
Gartner Peer Insights content consists of the opinions of individual end users based on their own experiences with the vendors listed on the platform, should not be construed as statements of fact, nor do they represent the views of Gartner or its affiliates. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in this content nor makes any warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this content, about its accuracy or completeness, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/health/health-summit/
Content:
Oracle Health Summit
Oracle Health Summit
September 8–10 in Orlando, Florida
Subscribe to be the first to hear about early registration for the event and to receive updates as we add speakers, sessions, and networking opportunities.
Subscribe today
for Health Summit updates
Save the date for Oracle Health Summit 2025
Join us from September 8 to 10 in Orlando to get an inside look at the new Oracle Health EHR and how we’re using AI to tackle the healthcare industry’s toughest challenges. At this second annual summit, we’re excited to bring together leaders from around the globe to discuss how the latest technologies can accelerate clinical research and help caregivers reclaim the joy of practicing medicine.
Don't miss your chance to see AI in action at Oracle Health Summit 2025!
We’ll share additional details, including registration information, in the coming weeks. Meantime, please save the date for the health event of 2025.
Add to calendar (ICS)
Oracle Health Summit 2024 highlights
Oracle Health Summit 2024 brought together healthcare providers and researchers, Oracle executives, and other leaders to discuss how the industry is addressing its most complex challenges. At this two-day event in Nashville, Tennessee, attendees learned about Oracle Health product advancements and how their peers are applying them.
Follow Oracle Health on social media
Oracle Health on Twitter
Oracle Health on LinkedIn
Oracle Health on YouTube
© 2025 Oracle Privacy/Do Not Sell My Info Cookie Preferences Ad Choices

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/legal/copyright/
Content:
Oracle Legal
Copyright Information
Copyright © 1995, 2025, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Privacy Policies
Terms of Use
Copyright
Trademarks
Logos
EEO / Pay Transparency
More
Procedure for Making Claims of Copyright Infringement
Oracle respects the intellectual property rights of others, and we ask our individuals using Oracle Web sites to do the same. If you believe that your copyrighted work has been copied and is accessible on an Oracle Web site in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, please send a Notice to our Copyright Agent providing the following information:
The electronic or physical signature of the owner of the copyright or the person authorized to act on the owner’s behalf
A description of the copyrighted work that you claim has been infringed and a description of the infringing activity
A description of where the material that you claim is infringing is located, such as the URL where it is posted
Your name, address, telephone number, and email address
A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that the disputed use of the material is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law
A statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the above information in your Notice is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or are authorized to act on the copyright owner’s behalf
Oracle’s Copyright Agent for Notice of claims of copyright infringement can be reached as follows. Note: This contact information is solely for reporting copyright infringement.
Oracle Corporation
500 Oracle Parkway, M/S 5op7
Redwood Shores, CA 94065
Attention: Trademark and Copyright Legal Department
Telephone: +1.650.506.5600
E-mail: copyright_us@oracle.com

Reporting Piracy of Oracle Products
If you believe that Oracle software or documentation is being copied, sold or distributed without licenses or permission from Oracle, please contact the Legal Department at copyright_us@oracle.com.

Buying Oracle Software Through Online Auctions
Much of the Oracle software sold through online auctions is pirated or otherwise unauthorized. In addition to being sold illegally, such software may contain bugs, viruses or other errors that could seriously damage your computer systems.
Oracle makes virtually all of its most popular software freely available for trial downloads in the Oracle Store or through free membership in the Oracle Technology Network.

Use of Oracle Screenshots
Oracle’s software programs are copyrighted materials owned by Oracle. Screenshots constituting an image of an individual screen display from any Oracle software, application or service are protected by copyright. (See Oracle’s Trademark Guidelines for questions about use of our company name and logos).
If you want to use more than ten (10) screenshots in a published piece, such as a book or white paper, you will require a formal permission letter from Oracle. Please contact our Copyright team at copyright_us@oracle.com with information about your work, the screenshots needed, and a sample chapter for our review. We may approve your request if the screenshot content does not constitute more than 25% of the content of your work.
If you want to use ten (10) or fewer screenshots in a published piece, you may do so provided that you agree and adhere to the following terms:
This permission constitutes a fully revocable, nonexclusive license and is not a transfer of ownership, title or any other right or interest in Oracle’s screenshots. Oracle may terminate permission at any time by notifying you of the termination of permission for your particular use. Oracle may revise or withdraw this general permission at any time without notice.
Your use may not directly or indirectly state or imply Oracle sponsorship, affiliation or endorsement of your product, service, or published piece.
Screenshots must be reproduced in their entirety and you may not alter screenshots in any way except to proportionally resize them. All added commentary and analysis relating to Oracle screenshots must be clearly attributable to you and not to Oracle.
This permission does not apply to any Oracle screenshots that are from beta products or other products that are subject to non-disclosure obligations or that have not yet been commercially released.
Oracle screenshots may not be incorporated into: comparative advertising; obscene, pornographic or sexually explicit materials; or materials which are, in Oracle’s sole opinion, disparaging or defamatory of Oracle, its products, or any other person or entity.
Oracle expressly disclaims all warranties of any kind, whether express or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement in connection with your use of Oracle screenshots. Your use of Oracle screenshots is at your own discretion and risk.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/legal/privacy/
Content:
Privacy @ Oracle
Privacy Policies
Terms of Use
Copyright
Trademarks
Logos
EEO / Pay Transparency
More
Oracle respects your preferences concerning the collection and use of your Personal Information. The following Oracle privacy policies are tailored for the different ways your Personal Information may be collected, used, shared and processed by different Oracle lines of business:
The Oracle General Privacy Policy addresses information we collect in connection with your use of Oracle websites, mobile applications, and social media pages that link to the General Privacy Policy, your interactions with Oracle during in-person meetings at Oracle facilities or at Oracle events, and in the context of other online or offline sales and marketing activities.
The Oracle Services Privacy Policy describes our privacy and security practices that apply when handling (i) services personal information in order to perform Consulting, Technical Support, Cloud and other services on behalf of Oracle customers; and (ii) personal information contained in systems operation data generated by the interaction of (end-)users of these services with Oracle systems and networks.
The Oracle Recruiting Privacy Policy addresses information we may collect in connection with Oracle’s online and offline recruiting efforts.
The Oracle Facilities and Physical Security Privacy Policy addresses the processing of personal information by Oracle through the use of Facial Recognition technology as part of our safety and security measures in select Oracle campuses and facilities in the United States.
The Customer Data Research and Development Privacy Policy describes Oracle’s processing of personal information in connection with Oracle’s artificial intelligence and machine learning activities in order to analyze, develop, and improve Oracle products and services, and for security and compliance purposes.
The Oracle Life Sciences Healthcare Research Privacy Policy addresses the processing of personal information by Oracle Life Sciences to facilitate Oracle health research activities.
The Oracle Restaurants eStore Privacy Policy describes Oracle’s processing of personal information in connection with Oracle’s provision of the Oracle Restaurants eStore Products and Services.
The Dyn Internet Performance Tools Privacy Policy provides information on the collection, use, sharing and processing of personal information by Oracle in connection with Dyn’s Recursive DNS service, Updater Client, Gauge web browser extension, and RUM beacons.
The Oracle Advertising Privacy Policy addresses how Oracle facilitates the collection and use of marketing and interest-based information to help enable interest-based advertising by our Oracle Advertising customers.
Pursuant to the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and other applicable laws and regulations, individuals may have data subject rights enabling them to request to access, delete, correct, remove or limit the use, or receive a copy of their personal information in Oracle’s possession or for which Oracle is otherwise responsible. If you would like to exercise your rights, please refer to the applicable privacy policy above or visit the Privacy Choices tab for more information.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/news/
Content:
Newsroom
Media Contacts
Resources
More Information
Regional Newsrooms
Oracle News
Oracle and Microsoft Add Powerful, Flexible New Services to Oracle Database@Azure and Expand Regional Availability
DSTA Selects Oracle Cloud Infrastructure for Ministry of Defence Singapore
Oracle and NVIDIA Collaborate to Help Enterprises Accelerate Agentic AI Inference
Oracle Releases Java 24
Search news items
Search
Get Oracle news, views, and how-tos delivered to your inbox.
Subscribe to Oracle Connect
Latest News
Mar 27, 2025
Oracle Named a Leader in 2025 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Source-to-Pay Suites
Embedded AI and analytics insights position Oracle Fusion Cloud Procurement as the standard for SaaS source-to-pay solutions.
Mar 26, 2025
Oracle Named a Category Leader in Chartis ALM Solutions, 2024 Market Quadrants Report
Oracle Financial Services recognized as a leader across six key solution areas for addressing treasury and risk challenges with its asset liability management solutions.
Mar 26, 2025
Oracle Named a Leader in Configure, Price, Quote by Independent Research Firm
Oracle Fusion Cloud Configure, Price, Quote (CPQ) recognized for AI-first innovation strategy.
Mar 25, 2025
Biofy Tackles Antibiotic Resistance with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
With OCI Generative AI and Oracle AI Vector Search, Biofy reduced the time to diagnose antibiotic resistance from five days to less than four hours.
Mar 25, 2025
Oracle Empowers Utilities with New Advanced Distribution Management System Enhancements
Modern, scalable grid operations expand distributed energy resource orchestration, improve forecasting, and optimize reliability.
Mar 24, 2025
Colorado First Responder Agencies Modernize Public Safety Systems with Oracle to Better Support Citizens and Staff
Archuleta County police, sheriff, fire, and emergency medical services agencies enhance collaboration and response capabilities with Oracle’s cloud-based Public Safety Suite.
Mar 24, 2025
Oracle Recognized as a Leader in IDC MarketScape for AI-Driven Retail Assortment Planning Solutions
Oracle Retail Suite noted for its AI-powered, advanced SKU prioritization and assortment optimization capabilities, active results in cost savings and strong partnership in developing new assortment optimization methods.
Mar 20, 2025
Oracle Recognizes Utilities Leading in Customer and Infrastructure Projects
Oracle Utilities customers American Electric Power (AEP), City of St. Petersburg, and Essential Energy were recognized for using modern digital technologies to simplify operations, transform customer experiences, and maximize work and asset performance.
Mar 20, 2025
Lloyds Banking Group Expands Collaboration with Oracle to Support Tech Transformation
UK financial services organisation adopts Oracle Database@Azure and Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer to accelerate its migration to the cloud, helping it to deliver new products and capabilities faster
Mar 20, 2025
AEGEAN Prioritizes Passenger Experience and Builds Loyalty with Oracle
The Greek flag carrier taps Oracle Fusion Cloud Customer Experience (CX) to personalize traveler experiences, boost revenue, and increase customer loyalty.
See more
Oracle CloudWorld Tour 2025
Join us at a city near you to experience the most popular sessions and labs from our flagship Oracle CloudWorld conference in Las Vegas.
Learn more
Newsroom Resources

About Oracle
About Oracle
Oracle Leadership

For Analysts
Strategic Acquisitions
Oracle Industry Reports

For Investors
Oracle Investor Relations
Investor News
Events and Presentations
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/corporate/careers/
Content:
Overview
Life at Oracle
Culture and Inclusion
Work We Do
Career Opportunities
Students and Graduates
ORACLE CAREERS
Create the future with us
Realize your potential and empower others to realize theirs as part of a company that’s innovating solutions to global challenges that affect billions of lives.
Search jobs
at Oracle
Transform the world for the better
Drive meaningful change, work with innovative people, and shape the technologies that are making the world a better place with the cloud leader for global business.

Search for jobs
Grow as a person and a professional
Jumpstart your future
Student or recent graduate—we have programs to help you build your skills and launch your career ready to succeed.
Learn more
about jumpstarting your future
Fuel your career
Explore self-directed training, mentoring, and on-the-job learning. Have a goal? We’ll help you reach it. Need direction? Let’s make a plan.
Learn more
about growing your career
Embrace inclusion
Oracle’s culture of inclusion empowers ideas and makes diverse voices heard on our journey to acceptance and opportunities for all.
Learn more
about innovation and inclusion
Live well, do good
From flexible benefits to work-life balance, our people are free to find their own way, bring their best selves to work, and impact the world with their ideas.
Learn more
about living well
Featured opportunities
Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
Innovate as part our intrepid team of engineers and help us build a new class of cloud.
Apply now
about Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
Oracle NetSuite
Transform your career and the way the world does business by helping us deliver the #1 cloud business solution.
Apply now
about Oracle NetSuite
Applications Consulting
Collaborate with companies to take on change and share your unique insights with our high-performing team.
Apply now
about applications consulting
Security Clearance Jobs
Lead the way to a more secure, scalable cloud for our customers and our country with people who are passionate about safeguarding the future.
Apply now
about Security Clearance Jobs
A place you’ll love to work
We’re proud to be a company that makes diversity and inclusion a priority. We listen closely to what you have to say—and we think that’s what makes us an employer of choice.

The Best Employers for Diversity
Forbes | 2024

The Best Employers for Women
Forbes | 2023

5 Star Employer
VETS Indexes | 2024

Human Rights Campaign Foundation
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality | 2023 - 2024

World's Most Attractive Employers
Universum | 2023

Disability Equality Index
Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion | 2024
Career Blogs
Read more blogs
Katty celebrates Latinx leadership
Senior Latina leader, Katty Coulson shares how mindset, community, and representation fuel her success.
Read Katty’s story
Security research is shaping the future
Huseyn has always loved sharing knowledge and solving puzzles. Learn how he’s creating the future on our new cybersecurity team.
Read Huseyn’s story
Creating connections: How OCI’s Engineering Community inspires career growth
Colin Torretta joined Oracle Cloud Infrastructure when it was a small internal start-up. He shares how the OCI Engineering Community grew and inspired his own career along the way.
Read Colin’s story

Apply today
Explore open roles and find the future of your career.
Search jobs
at Oracle

Oracle Talent Network
Get career insights and job opportunities.
Join our network
at Oracle
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Youtube
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

Page: https://www.oracle.com/erp/what-is-erp/best-erp/
Content:
Overview
ERP Products
ERP for Industries
Compare
Migrate to Cloud
What's New
Business Insights
Applications ERP What is ERP?
Oracle cloud ERP leadership
See why customers choose cloud ERP from Oracle, the leading cloud ERP solution provider
Unlike other software providers, our ERP solutions have been cloud-based from the beginning with modular AI-based business capabilities. Our large community of more than 11,000 Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP customers and 38,000 Oracle NetSuite customers1 trust Oracle to run their mission-critical business functions.
So you can start your journey now and improve time-to-value while lowering costs.
Take a product tour
Take the first step to migrate to Oracle Cloud ERP
Oracle offers a complete suite of integrated SaaS cloud applications built on Oracle’s next-generation infrastructure and built-in advanced technologies designed to run your entire business. Customers can start their cloud transformation immediately, whatever their starting point, whatever the most complex business and technology scenario.
Oracle Cloud ERP is trusted by thousands of customers worldwide. Take the next step:
Contact sales
Browse product tours
Request a demo
See why companies choose Oracle Cloud ERP over the competition
Click on the customer logos below and explore these customer use cases highlighting how companies across a wide range of industries have chosen Oracle Cloud ERP and Oracle NetSuite over the competition.
Evaluating other vendors?
Check out these side-by-side comparisons to see how we can help and why Oracle Cloud ERP leads where it matters.
Compare Oracle vs. Microsoft
Compare Oracle vs. SAP
Compare Oracle vs. Workday
1 Source: Oracle FY25 Q3 earnings.
Resources for
Why Oracle
Learn
News and Events
Contact Us
© 2025 Oracle
Privacy
/
Do Not Sell My Info
Cookie Preferences
Ad Choices
Careers

================================================================================

